Tourism-related businesses are at a tipping point after more than 30% of them have exited the market, with many set to follow, according to the Tourism Council of Thailand (TCT). 

 Chairat Trirattanajarasporn, president of the TCT, said the tourism industry predicts a further deterioration after six months of the coronavirus crisis, as many related businesses are terminating their operations or selling off assets, choosing not to wait for an uncertain recovery. 

 He said the main types of businesses affected by the crisis are tour operators, bus services with a small vehicle fleet, restaurants, souvenir shops and hotels that used to focus on foreign tour groups, especially the Chinese market. 

 Mr Chairat said the TCT is in the process of collecting the exact number of members fleeing the sector, which he believes should amount to more than 30% in the first half of the year, as Thailand continues to seal the borders to international tourists. 

 The Tourism Department said 1,111 tour operators in the January-June period gave up their licences and asked for their guarantees back. 

 The figure hit a crescendo in June as 262 companies permanently quit the market, while withdrawals in the second quarter made up 65.4% of all withdrawals in the first half as tourism reeled from lockdown measures. 

 If travel bubbles cannot be implemented this year, more than 30% of outbound operators will have to permanently shut down their business, said Thanapol Cheewarattanaporn, president of the Thai Travel Agents Association. 

 At present, most operators have staved off making any decision as they are waiting for further details on travel bubble agreements with other countries. After the infections of an Egyptian airman in Rayong and the daughter of a Sudanese diplomat were detected, these agreements may take even longer to come about. 

 "The domestic market has become a priority market for tour operators who want to maintain business while waiting for borders to reopen," Mr Thanapol said. 

 The association also encourages members to join the government's Moral Support campaign while providing packages to serve domestic meetings and seminars. 

 Mr Thanapol said Thai outbound tourists who prefer standardised services and are concerned about health issues are another potential market. 

 The outbreak could be an opportunity to increase the average number of individual local trips from 3.5 trips a year to six trips by next year. 

 More than seven thousand people who were in locations visited by an infected Egyptian serviceman in Rayong and the infected daughter of a Sudanese diplomat in Bangkok have tested negative for Covid-19. 

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman for the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA), said on Tuesday that another 279 people in Rayong who were tested had also returned negative results. 

 Between July 14 and 19, some 6,501 people who might have been exposed to the virus in Rayong underwent coronavirus tests and all were cleared, according to the Department of Disease Control. 

 They had either been at the hotel where the infected soldier had stayed, or one of the shopping malls he and other Egyptian servicemen visited. 

 In Bangkok, 364 people underwent Covid-19 tests during the same period and no infections were found among them. The latest test results brought the number of people testing negative to 7,144, said Dr Taweesilp. 

 Earlier on Tuesday, the Department of Disease Control (DDC) reported that the Public Health Ministry had conducted more than 6,000 Covid-19 tests in Rayong and most tested negative. 

 The DDC said the results showed that health measures now in place were controlling the spread of the disease and the infected Egyptian had not endangered the public. 

 Officials reported five new coronavirus cases, all quarantined returnees from Egypt, Japan and Sudan, raising the total to 3,255. 

 No new deaths were reported, leaving the death toll at 58, and on Tuesday was the 57th consecutive day with no locally transmitted infections. 

 One new case was a male student aged 26, who arrived from Japan on July 7. 

 He had a fever and was sent straight to a hospital in Samut Prakan province. His first test was negative but the second returned positive on Saturday and the disease was detected after he lost his sense of smell. 

 The Association of Private School for Non-Formal Education is seeking a relaxation of visa restrictions for foreign teachers and students in the kingdom, including those who are waiting to enter the country. 

 The association requests that foreign teachers and students already in the country be allowed to stay in Thailand legally until the end of this month so their universities can have more time to prepare the paperwork needed to renew or apply for work permits and student visas, said Thongchai Pradubchananurat, president of the association, on Tuesday. 

 Foreign teachers with expired work permits should be given an additional 30 days by the Immigration Bureau to renew their visa, Mr Thongchai said. 

 The teachers need a visa extension so they can stay while applying for a new permit, he noted. 

 Foreign nationals with tourist visas who intend to teach here should be allowed to stay until they are given Non-Immigration Education visas without having to leave the country first as they normally would be required to do, he said. 

 Mr Thongchai said prospective foreign students already in Thailand on other types of visas that will soon expire should be granted with special permission to have their visas upgraded to the Non-Immigration Education visa in Thailand, despite the Covid-19 outbreak. 

 The global pandemic of the new coronavirus has severely disrupted the education sector, including various institutions nationwide. 

 The sector is facing a shortage of foreign teachers, Mr Thongchai noted. 

 Many teachers with a proper work permit left Thailand and cannot return to work due to the pandemic that has not been brought under control in many parts of the world. 

 The new school term has already begun, and some classes are missing their foreign teachers who have not been able to return, Mr Thongchai said. 

 Many prospective foreign students who are already in Thailand would sometimes only have 15 days to stay in the country, which means they would have to leave the kingdom and apply for a Non-Immigrant Education visa at a Thai embassy overseas, he said. 

 However, Covid-19 has made travelling impossible. 

 The association on Tuesday submitted their request to Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha through the government's complaint centre. 

 The request was received by Suporn Atthawong, the deputy PM's Office minister. 

 The cabinet on Tuesday gave the go-ahead for unlicensed hotels to join the We Travel Together tourism stimulus campaign and for expanded subsidies on services or goods bought by travellers during four working days (Monday-Thursday). 

 The move is to increase supply and give tourists more choices, said Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha. 

 Under the cabinet's decision, hotels that are not registered as required by the Hotel Act will be permitted to join the We Travel Together scheme, Gen Prayut said. The government will loosen restrictions on three groups: hotels in the process of obtaining a licence, hotels whose licences expired less than a year ago, and small or boutique hotels that do not fit the hotel licence criteria. 

 According to data from the Tourism Authority of Thailand, 6,000 registered hotels joined the scheme. The number of hotels in Thailand is much larger, with at least 800,000 rooms operating legally and 1 million illegally. 

 Gen Prayut threatened on Tuesday to blacklist hotels that cash in on the state tourism stimulus scheme to unfairly raise their room rates. 

 "I've already ordered hotels joining the programme to be penalised if they have been found to increase their room rates to take advantage of the 40% subsidy from the government," he said. "The Tourism and Sports Ministry is investigating this issue." 

 The prime minister's warning came after several registrants complained of inflated room rates on social media. 

 Gen Prayut also called on travellers to visit second-tier provinces and travel more during working days. 

 The prime minister recently instructed the Tourism and Sports Ministry and the Tourism Authority of Thailand to distribute tourism revenue to the vast majority of the country. 

 Of the approved budget totalling 18 billion baht for the hotel subsidy and 2 billion baht for air tickets, the Tourism and Sports Ministry expects just half to be used, as people tend to drive to destinations near Bangkok rather than use air transport. 

 Chamnan Srisawat, president of the Thai Federation of Provincial Tourist Associations, said that as everyone in the tourism industry is being affected by the ongoing outbreak, the decision to extend eligibility for the We Travel Together scheme to hotels that lack licences will help such hotels stay afloat. 

 If the government allows more hotels to participate, local tourists will have more choices in price and location to accommodate their budget, such as lodging at a homestay in a local community, he said. 

 But Mr Chamnan said the increase in daily subsidies for the purchase of services and goods during trips, from 600 baht to 900 baht during the four working days, is not the right way to stimulate tourism in the first place. 

 The government should consider using the budget to support tour operators directly, especially transport operators like tour buses and airlines that help funnel tourism income throughout the country, he said. 

 In addition, representatives from tourism associations have to be included in the process and work more closely with state agencies to enable the government to release more inclusive tourism measures in the future, Mr Chamnan said. 

 Phuket: The island province is drawing up short, medium and long-term campaigns to revive the local tourism industry, brought to its knees by the Covid-19 pandemic. 

 Provincial governor Narong Woonsew said on Tuesday the province contributes 400 billion baht in tourism revenue to the country each year on average. 

 The sector, which employed 323,219 people locally before Covid-19 struck early this year, generated 245 billion baht in annual gross provincial product (GPP). 

 Mr Narong said the pandemic has dealt a devastating blow to Phuket's tourism industry on which 80% of its economy depends. 

 The damage to the province's tourism sector caused by the outbreak is estimated at 160 billion baht. It is forecast the number of tourist visiting Phuket this year will shrink to only five million, substantially down from last year's figure of 14.4 million. Of those five million tourists, 1.5 million are predicted to be Thais. 

 Mr Narong said the huge dent in tourism has prompted a rethink of the province's economic advancement strategy, whereby it will reduce its dependence on one sector and diversify by developing other potential growth-driver businesses. 

 When the tourism industry in Phuket takes a battering, the entire local economy also crashes, the governor said. 

 Mr Narong said the priority now is to get the economy back on its feet by implementing short, medium and long term revival campaigns involving cooperation between the public and private sectors. 

 In the short term, the government is offering a 40% subsidy on air tickets and accommodation for people taking a holiday in the province over the next three months. Also, medical workers are entitled to a travel and accommodation discount as gesture of thanks from the government for their efforts in battling Covid-19. 

 In the medium and longer term, the provincial office and tourism companies are looking to develop non-tourism sectors to help drive the province's growth. They include education, health and wellness, seafood and gastronomy businesses. 

 Gold prices on Tuesday climbed to a nearly nine-year high as investors continued to seek refuge in the precious metal as a safe haven amid surging Covid-19 infections worldwide. 

 The local gold price climbed at a moderate pace as the baht strengthened against the US dollar. 

 The price of gold peaked at US$1,824.5 an ounce on Tuesday, the highest level since September 2011, as global infections surpassed more than 14.8 million cases and over 613,000 deaths. 

 The SPDR fund bought 4.97 tonnes of gold on Monday after buying 6.43 tonnes last week. 

 Gold was lifted by a weaker US dollar and fireworks in silver, which climbed 3% to $19.33 an ounce overnight, said Jeffrey Halley, senior market analyst for Asia-Pacific at forex firm Oanda. 

 "A move through $1,820 an ounce [for gold] should see more stop-loss sellers, as well as model-driven buyers, hit the market," Mr Halley said. "That could lead to a reasonably rapid spike by gold into the mid-1,830s an ounce, reinvigorating gold's rally." 

 Jitti Tangsithpakdi, chairman of the Gold Traders Association and owner of Chin Hua Heng Goldsmith, said gold continues to rise because of the weaker dollar and the global economic slowdown. 

 If the economic downturn does not reverse, gold will remain as a safe-haven asset, Mr Jitti said, adding that the pandemic and foreign exchange volatility have contributed to the surge in prices. 

 On the domestic front, gold edged up to 27,300 baht per baht-weight as the baht strengthened to 31.67 against the dollar at press time, up from 31.80 on Monday. 

 "Gold, as a safe haven when the global economy is in downturn, is investible because the price continues to be on an upward trend supported by the uncertainty of the Covid-19 pandemic and progress towards a vaccine," said MTS Gold chairman Kritcharat Hirunyasiri. 

 Mr Kritcharat said investors should invest with caution and buy gold when the price falls to $1,805 for global spot and 27,000 baht for domestic gold. 

 Tanarat Pasawongse, chief executive of Hua Seng Heng Group, said global gold prices in the medium term are expected to move upward, while sideways movement is anticipated in the short term, with a resistance line at $1,830-$1,850. 

 For gold futures investors, the resistance line is 27,610 baht and the support line is 27,100 baht, he said. 

 Before the Covid-19 lockdown, Dino Detective used to be the most popular play zone at Bangkok's Children Discovery Museum. Usually crowded with eager children digging for fossils of dinosaurs buried under the sand, now only 10 young participants at a time are allowed in the zone due to the social distancing measures. 

 The same happens at the popular Bangkok Planetarium in the Science Centre for Education where the 280 seats were always fully booked for each session. Now, only 100 participants can be accommodated in the dome per session to enjoy the astronomy presentation. 

 After about four long months of being in a lockdown situation, Bangkok is gradually returning to some kind of normalcy -- albeit a "new" norm. Families with children, students and the general public have returned to museums for edutainment. However, Covid-19 has left its imprint on the world. Before the outbreak, visitors thought nothing of interacting with the displays, such as touching the screens, objects and gadgets, all pulling on joysticks and trying out the interactive exhibits. However, now that has all changed as people are aware that touching any equipment may lead to a possible Covid-19 infection. 

 According to the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA), of around 3,250 total cases of Covid-19 infections in Thailand, only 62 were younger than 10 years old. Though the number of infected children isn't as high as other age groups, young ones are still considered a vulnerable group who don't know how to protect themselves. Therefore, it is important for these public edutainment establishments -- like children's museums -- to have safety measures in place. 

 To prevent the young visitors from possible infection, Ditsaphon Matuampunwong, senior educator of the Science Centre for Education (SCE), and Sojirasami Kunsirichaiwat, head of the Children's Discovery Museum (Chatuchak) at Children's Discovery Museum (CDM), strictly follow CCSA guidelines. The standard guidance includes scanning the Thai Chana QR code, temperature screening, wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and providing hand sanitiser. 

 With an area of 30 rai, SCE has several entrances. To monitor everyone closely, the entrances are limited to three main gates. Sections in the SCE are divided into low-, medium-, or high-touch frequency zones that affect the allowed capacity and recommended time spent. For instance, Fun Science, which has a spinning wheel to learn about gravity, is defined as a high-touch frequency zone and thus maximum capacity is set at 10 people and duration no longer than 20 minutes. Three hand sanitisers are provided at these high-touch frequency zones. 

 "Each zone has a time limit and maximum capacity. If the number of visitors reaches our maximum capacity, we won't allow more people to enter the area. At SCE, people can't avoid touching or pressing buttons in order to interact with the gadgets, so our staff are positioned in every zone to wipe down the equipment after being used. In addition, visitors are required to use hand sanitiser before and after their time in each zone," said Ditsaphon. 

 At the Children's Discovery Museum, however, people are usually aware of the fact the main visitors are families with children aged 12 and younger, which are vulnerable groups. Since its opening in 2001, CDM has provided hand sanitiser as well as arranged a big clean up every Monday, which is its regular closing day. 

 "In the past, visitors can spend one hour or longer at a zone. Now, they are allowed to stay in each zone for only 40 minutes. Our opening hours are from 10am to 4pm, but we closed every hour for 20 minutes in order to sanitise the museum. We also have a big clean up every evening. We clean the entrance and all areas around and in the buildings with disinfectant. On our Monday closing day, our cleaning staff spray disinfectant to sanitise the museum. After the pandemic, we clean more frequently and pay close attention to details," said Sojirasami. 

 A spinning wheel at a high-touch zone, Fun Science 

 Social distancing is another measure stipulated by the CCSA that designates keeping a distance of at least 1m away from others when in public. Before the novel coronavirus arrived, Bangkok Planetarium was always packed. Today, audience seating is limited to 100 per session. 

 "The Bangkok Planetarium has 280 seating capacity, but now, we allow only 100 viewers to enter the dome during a presentation. Each group has to keep a distance of two seats away from the other groups in the auditorium. After the show, our cleaning staff wipe down the seats and other areas with disinfectant," Ditsaphon said. 

 Children's Discovery Museum emphasises social distancing of at least 1.5m and marks the floor to indicate spacing everywhere in the venue. Since CDM focuses on learning by interaction, children can't avoid coming in contact with learning tools such as kitchen supplies, career outfits, paintbrushes and plastic construction toys. 

 "Previously 40 to 50 children were allowed in each zone, but now, we have limited the number of participants to only 10 per hour. After the tools are used, they will be cleaned," said the head of CDM. 

 Since the Covid-19 vaccines aren't available yet, any zone at edutainment centres that are at high risk for infection must be closed for visitors' safety. CDM temporarily shut down its Water Play zone, which just reopened on July 10. SCE decided to close one of its exhibitions that involves a lot of touching in a dark room. 

 Cleaning staff wipe down the seats at Bangkok Planetarium. 

 "In Building 4 on the 7th floor of SCE, there is a dark room for visitors to explore their sensory skills. People use their sense of touch and feel to learn about objects in the room. We closed down this dark room because of the risk involved with many hands touching the objects. There are many science exhibitions that require touching for learning in Building 2, but the building is closed for renovation," said Ditsaphon. 

 Most visitors at SCE and CDM express concern about the pandemic, but wear masks and carry their own hand sanitiser. Overall, they are satisfied with SCE and CDM's safety measures. One mother, Siri, who brought her two-year-old daughter Pim to Kid Town zone in SCE said she was still a bit worried about the outbreak even though the lockdown had been lifted for a while now. 

 "I make sure my daughter wears a mask and keeps her hands clean. I bring my own hand sanitiser and I tell Pim not touch the handrails," Siri said. 

 A 38-year-old housewife, Aim, visited CDM with her three-year-old daughter Mila. She was satisfied to see that the Water Play zone was temporarily closed. 

 "Seeing the Water Play closed made me feel that the museum is taking protective measures for our safety. However, there is some equipment that children have to share, so I don't allow my daughter to play with them," Aim said. 

 Ditsaphon Matuampunwong, senior educator at the Science Centre for Education. 

 For those who are still hesitant to visit edutainment establishments, both CDM and SCE provide knowledge and information on their Facebook pages. Sojirasami said if parents and children aren't comfortable about visiting CDM in person, they can watch videos on Facebook. 

 The videos provide activities as well as interesting information for children to watch. In the future, SCE plans to provide online ticket reservations for the planetarium. With a restriction of only 100 seats at a time, many walk-ins are disappointed to not get a ticket or don't want to wait such a long time for the next show. Also, the science exhibition in Building 2, which is currently under renovation, will reopen with more hands-off exhibitions that will be more risk free for visitors. 

 "In developed countries, there are many virtual exhibitions. We also plan to develop such exhibitions that don't require touching by hand. They will only require body movements, but no direct hand contact. In the future, museums' hands-off technology will become competitive. At science museums, it is difficult to learn without interacting with objects, so how can we provide interactive learning safely? We have to develop new exhibitions that are interesting as well as safe for the public," said Ditsaphon. 

 Sojirasami Kunsirichaiwat, head of the Children's Discovery Museum (Chatuchak). 

 Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha says he has completed his new cabinet line-up and all that remains is for the qualifications of the new ministers to be checked. 

 Of most interest is the energy portfolio, which is expected to be given to an outsider, according to government sources, despite the ruling Palang Pracharath Party (PPRP) saying it should make the appointment based on the post being within its quota. 

 Speaking after Tuesday's cabinet meeting, the PM said that following the resignations of six ministers he would announce the cabinet line-up as soon as possible. 

 Gen Prayut said after those chosen to fill the cabinet posts have been invited and accepted the invitations, their qualifications must be checked. Once the formalities have been completed, the new cabinet line-up will go to His Majesty the King for endorsement and the swearing-in ceremony will follow. 

 "You can be certain that I will do this as soon as possible," he added. 

 Asked about friction with the ruling party, particularly over whether the post of energy minister fell under the party's quota or the prime minister's, Gen Prayut said there had been no problems and he had talked with Gen Prawit Wongsuwon, the PPRP leader. 

 "We did not talk about whose quota the post belongs to. I will see to it that the line-up is suitable. Everybody has the right to speak out but it is I who make the decision, based on mutual understanding," Gen Prayut said. 

 "I think the reshuffle will be finished soon. As I have said, there are steps to be taken under the law." 

 He declined to say whether Bansarn Bunnag, the prime minister's deputy secretary-general, would be in the new cabinet or whether Don Pramudwinai would remain as foreign minister. "Just wait for the announcement," he said. 

 Gen Prayut refused to confirm whether Suriya Jungrungreangkit, the industry minister, would be shifted to oversee the Energy Ministry. 

 Mr Suriya is a co-founder of the party's Sam Mitr faction, which insists that the energy post be returned from the prime minister's quota to the party's quota and that Mr Suriya be given the job. 

 The move followed Gen Prayut's claim that it was his right to determine who should fill the position, as well as three other cabinet portfolios left vacant by the resignations of Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak, Finance Minister Uttama Savanayana, Energy Minister Sontirat Sontijirawong and Higher Education, Science and Innovations Minister Suvit Maesincee. 

 The four resigned last week along with Kobsak Pootrakul, deputy secretary-general of the prime minister, in a move they said would make it easier for Gen Prayut to carry out his cabinet reshuffle. 

 On Monday, the Chart Pattana Party's Tewan Liptapanlop also resigned from the position of PM's office minister, while MR Chatu Mongol Sonakul resigned as labour minister. 

 According to a government source, the new cabinet line-up includes Predee Daochai, a co-president of Kasikornbank and chairman of the Thai Bankers' Association, who will become deputy prime minister and concurrently serve as finance minister. 

 Former deputy transport minister Pailin Chuchottaworn is also said to be touted for the sought-after role of energy minister. 

 This would mean Mr Suriya's hope of securing the energy portfolio in the cabinet reshuffle has been dashed again, the source said. 

 The source added that the list of nominees for cabinet posts under the party's quota proposed by Tuesday's meeting of PPRP MPs had been rejected by the prime minister. 

 The meeting on Tuesday concluded that Mr Suriya, the industry minister, should be shifted to the Energy Ministry, the source said. 

 The meeting also agreed that Anucha Nakhasai, the party's secretary-general, should be nominated for the industry minister post, replacing Mr Suriya while Suchart Chomklin, a PPRP MP for Chon Buri, would become labour minister, and Narumon Pinyosinwat, the government spokeswoman, would become the PM's office minister. 

 The meeting also nominated Gen Prawit for the interior minister post, only to be turned down by Gen Prawit himself, the source said. 

 Gen Prawit also informed a meeting of the party's executive committee that he had discussed with Gen Prayut the party's ministerial quota, and Gen Prayut told him that he had allocated only two cabinet seats to the party, the source said. 

 "The prime minister will decide who from the party will assume the two cabinet posts," the source quoted Gen Prawit as saying. 

 Commenting on the post of labour minister, Gen Prawit said it was originally part of the Action Coalition for Thailand Party's quota, according to the source. "We cannot get them out unless they move out themselves," he quoted Gen Prawit as saying. 

 But the source said that the only two PPRP MPs correctly tipped for cabinet posts would be Mr Anucha, who would become higher education, science and innovations minister, replacing Mr Suvit, and Mr Suchart, who would be named as PM's office minister, replacing Mr Tewan. 

 A committee on lockdown easing will on Wednesday propose that the state of emergency be extended by another month to the end of August, citing increased uncertainty. 

 National Security Council secretary-general Gen Somsak Rungsita, in his capacity as chairman of the committee, would make the recommendation to the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration at its meeting on Wednesday. 

 Authorities had to closely monitoring the situation following visits by an infected Egyptian serviceman in Rayong and an infected daughter of a Sudanese diplomat in Bangkok, as well as the opening of schools, Gen Natthaphol Nakpanich, deputy army chief in his capacity as deputy chairman of the lockdown-easing committee said on Tuesday. 

 He insisted the proposed extension was not political despite emerging rallies. To ease worries, the committee would propose that Section 9(2) of the emergency decree not be used to control any political gatherings, said Gen Natthaphol.   

 Normal laws such as a law on public gatherings and the Communicable Disease Control Act would be used to deal with political gatherings, he added. 

 If approved, the extension of the Covid-19 state of emergency will be the fouth since it was first declared on April 3, for a total period of five months. 

 During an emergency, the prime minister may: 

 The law does not allow petitioning to the Administrative Court so people who want to take action against officials during an emergency must go to the Criminal Court. 

 Section 17 of the state of emergency decree also gives civil, criminal and disciplinary impunity to officials so long as they have acted reasonably. 

 SURAT THANI: Owners of 176 roofed platforms built to guard illegal cockle farms in the waters of Bandon Bay have been given 15 days to dismantle them, or face legal action. 

 Orders to remove the structures were posted on Tuesday by a team led by RrAdm Samroeng Chanso, commander of the 2nd Naval Area and director of a joint task force to maintain peace and solve  encroachment on public waters in Muang and Phunphin districts of Bandon Bay. 

 The owners have 15 days to dismantle all 176 platforms in the sea. 

 If they fail to do so, navy personnel and local officials will remove the platforms. Legal action will be taken against the owners, who will also have to pay the costs of dismantling them. 

 Kiartisak Kasemphankul, chief of the Surat Thani provincial fisheries office, said any structure built in the catch areas must have permission from the Department of Fisheries. 

 His office had earlier sent a dismantle order by post to owners of three large illegal platforms in Phunphin district who hit the headlines after a violent clash with coastal fishermen raiding their cockle beds, Mr Kiartisak said. 

 The roofed platforms were built by cockle farmers to protect breeding areas they have occupied against incursions by local fishermen, who claimed a public right to harvest the profitable shellfish. 

 Cockle farmers have been illegally occupying large areas of the sea, which is in the public domain. They occupied offshore areas of several districts and developed them as private farms breeding hoi kraeng, also known as blood clams. 

 Roofed platforms built by cockle farmers amid their breeding beds in the sea off Surat Thani. (Photo: Supapong Chaolan) 

 Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha has hinted a new cabinet line-up has been completed and the qualifications of the ministers on the list are being checked. 

 Speaking after the cabinet meeting on Tuesday, Gen Prayut said he would complete the cabinet reshuffle as soon as possible, as six ministers have resigned. 

 Gen Prayut said after those selected for cabinet posts have been invited and accepted the invitation, their qualifications must be checked. When formalities were complete, the new cabinet line-up would go to His Majesty the King for endorsement and the swearing-in ceremony would follow, he said. 

 "You can be certain that I will do this as soon as possible," he added. 

 Asked about problems in the Palang Pracharath Party (PPRP), particularly over the post of energy minister, Gen Prayut said there were no problems and he had talked to Gen Prawit Wongsuwon, the PPRP leader, about this matter. 

 "We don't talk about ministerial quotas. I will see to it that the line-up is suitable. I thank all PPRP members. Everybody has the right to speak out, but it is I who make the decision, based on mutual understanding. 

 "I think the reshuffle will be finished soon. As I have said, there are steps to be taken under the law," Gen Prayut said. 

 He declined to say whether Bansarn Bunnag, the prime minister's deputy secretary-general, would be on the cabinet list or whether Don Pramudwinai would remain as foreign minister. "Just wait for the announcement," he said. 

 Asked for confirmation that the line-up has been completed, he said, "probably". 

 Gen Prayut refused to confirm that Suriya Juangroongruangkit, the industry minister, would be shifted to oversee the Energy Ministry. 

 Asked about government spokeswoman Narumon Pinyosinwat, who reports said may become Prime Minister's Office minister, Gen Prayut responded with a heavy sigh and walked away from the podium. 

 Mr Don, meanwhile, refused to comment when asked about the reports that he would be replaced as foreign minister by Mr Bansarn, saying only that the prime minister had not mentioned this. 

 RATCHABURI: The management of Ratchaburi Hospital on Tuesday denied a member of their staff mocked an emergency caller who later lost her father. 

 Dr Pichian Wuthisathirapinyo, director of the hospital, held a press conference in response to an allegation that someone working on his 1669 call hotline on Sunday told an 18-year-old woman that he could not hear her and imitated a busy signal before hanging up. 

 The woman was seeking an ambulance for her father, who had severe breathing difficulty and chest pain. The 53-year-old man, Pisit Ongpisut, was pronounced dead at the hospital. 

 The person who took the call insisted that he had no intention to mock her and felt very sorry for the loss, Dr Pichian said. 

 "The patient's relative might not have heard some words and thus misunderstood. I understand that the relative was worried at that moment out of concern for her father," the director said. 

 He explained that an ambulance reached the family within only seven minutes, faster than the eight-minute standard. 

 Caller Pronrawin Ongpisut, 18, wrote on Facebook that she first called the hospital at 7.13am on Sunday, and hospital staff told her they would send an ambulance. Four minutes later she made a second call because her father's chest pain and breathing difficulty had worsened and an ambulance had yet to arrive. 

 The second call was not answered, she said. A minute later, she made a third call. When a man answered, she tearfully asked him why the ambulance was slow in arriving. 

 She quoted the man as saying twice that he could not hear her, and then imitating a busy signal before hanging up. She also wrote that she did not deserve to be teased at that critical moment and that an ambulance arrived at 7.20am. 

 Her father died of coronary artery disease. 

 WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump changed his tune in favour of face masks as a tool to combat the coronavirus in the United States, as European leaders on Tuesday agreed on a massive aid package for their pandemic-ravaged economies. 

 The virus has infected more than 14.6 million people and killed over 600,000 of them since it first emerged in China, with fresh alarm being sounded over its accelerating spread in Africa. 

 And despite rising hopes for two vaccine candidates, there are few options available to combat the spread of Covid-19, though they do include face masks -- which Trump and his political allies refused to encourage for months. 

 But he changed direction on Monday, tweeting a photo of himself wearing a mask with the message: "We are United in our effort to defeat the Invisible China Virus, and many people say that it is Patriotic to wear a face mask when you can't socially distance." 

 "There is nobody more Patriotic than me, your favorite President!" 

 US authorities are struggling to handle the crisis as infections surge towards four million, with more than 140,000 deaths, and Trump has been slammed for his management of the crisis. 

 The president is scrambling to respond to public anger just over 100 days from the November election, with the human toll rising and the US economy devastated. 

 Tens of millions of Americans have been left jobless, and the extra unemployment benefits keeping some from poverty are set to expire at the end of July. 

 "I'm still struggling to pay the bills and I'm still looking for a job," said Diana Yitbarek, 44, who has been unemployed since April. 

 "And nowadays it's hard to find a job because everything is closed." 

 - 'Landmark' EU deal - 

 Across the Atlantic, European leaders agreed on a landmark stimulus package worth 750 billion euros ($858 billion) to help pull the bloc out of the deepest recession in its history. 

 The package will send tens of billions of euros to countries hit hardest by the virus, most notably heavily indebted Spain and Italy that had lobbied hard for a major gesture from their EU partners. 

 "Deal!" tweeted EU Council Chief Charles Michel, whose job was to guide the talks, which saw strong resistance from some countries against sending money to nations they consider too lax with public spending. 

 With even richer nations struggling, experts have warned that the impact would be harshest in poorer regions of the world like Africa. 

 There are fresh concerns about the continent, particularly South Africa, where the death toll crossed 5,000 over the weekend. 

 The South Africa situation could be "a warning" for the rest of the continent, the World Health Organization's emergency chief Michael Ryan said. 

 "I am very concerned right now that we are beginning to see an acceleration of disease in Africa," he added. 

 Latin America has already been hammered, with Brazil -- the second worst-hit nation -- crossing 80,000 deaths on Monday. 

 - Vaccine hopes - 

 Two studies offered new hope on Monday of a potential vaccine, however. 

 One trial among more than 1,000 adults in Britain found that a vaccine induced "strong antibody and T cell immune responses" against the coronavirus. 

 A separate trial in China involving more than 500 people showed most had developed widespread antibody immune response. 

 An effective vaccine is considered key for a return to normality, particularly for travel and large religious gatherings like the Hajj. 

 The massive annual Islamic pilgrimage has been dramatically scaled down by Saudi authorities this year to around 1,000 compared with the usual 2.5 million people. 

 Until a vaccine is developed, many fear they will have to balance the Covid-19 risk with the need to make ends meet. 

 "We have to learn to live with the virus," said Daniel Bailo, a vendor at a hiking and fishing store in Argentina's capital Buenos Aires. 

 "If we don't, the economic damage will be worse than the damage caused by the virus." 

 Thailand on Tuesday reported five new coronavirus cases, all quarantined returnees from Egypt, Japan and Sudan, raising the total to 3,255. 

 No new deaths were reported, leaving the accumulated death toll at 58. 

 Tuesday marked the 57th consecutive day with no locally transmitted infections. 

 No additional Covid-19 patients were discharged in the previous 24 hours, leaving the total number recovered at 3,096, with 101 people now hospitalised. 

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman of the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration, said one new case was a male student aged 26 who arrived from on Japan on July 7. 

 He had a fever and was sent to a hospital in Samut Prakan province right away. His first test was negative but the second returned positive on Saturday. The disease was detected after he lost his sense of smell after he had been in hospital for about 10 days, Dr Taweesilp said. 

 Three of the new cases are male students aged 20, 25, and 28. They arrived on the same flight from Egypt on July 8. Eight others from the same flight were earlier confirmed as Covid-19 cases. The new cases were quarantined in Chon Buri province and tested positive on Sunday while being asymptomatic. 

 The other new case came from Sudan on Saturday. The 35-year-old man had hernia pain and was sent to hospital. He underwent a Covid-19 test the same day and it returned positive. He had no coronavirus symptoms, Dr Taweesilp said. 

 He said 500 Thai people had returned from Sudan and 23 of them had Covid-19, while 780 came from Egypt and 22 of them carried the disease. Four out of 1,983 returnees from Japan tested positive. 

 Global Covid-19 cases rose by 210,881 over the past 24 hours to 14.85 million. The death toll went up by 4,311 to 613,213. The United States had the most cases at 3.96 million and the most deaths at 143,834. 

 "The disease is still in its critical stage. With the increment of some 200,000 a day, 1 million new cases will be logged in five days. So, the total should reach 15 million tomorrow," Dr Taweesilp said. 

 Thailand ranked 102nd in the world by total number of cases.  

 Senator Kamnoon Sitthisamarn has asked the government to communicate directly with protesters regarding issues polarising the country while urging the prime minister to also address the matter. 

 During a meeting of the Senate on Monday, Mr Kamnoon said the placards held up by some of the protesters might cause distress to a lot of people in society and asked the prime minister how the government would deal with the issue. 

 The protesters' demands embodied the political conflicts that have existed in Thailand for the past 15 years, he said. 

 The Free Youth group and the Student Union of Thailand staged an anti-government protest on July 18, demanding the government dissolve the parliament, stop using oppressive laws and rewrite the constitution. 

 Deputy Defence Minister Gen Chaichan Changmongkol said the PM was concerned about the protest and warned that it must not involve the monarchy. 

 Meanwhile, Chairman of the Progressive Movement Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit denied the rumours that he was behind the demonstration and had paid the protest leaders. 

 Mr Thanathorn, however, said the Progressive Movement and the Move Forward Party supported the protest as they all wanted the constitution rewritten. 

 The politician urged people to help protect the pro-democracy protesters who might be prosecuted for violating the emergency decree and lèse majesté law. 

 Chief of the Metropolitan Police Bureau Pol Lt Gen Phukphong Phongpetra said investigators were deciding whether to summon the protest leaders for questioning. 

 Regarding an anti-government demonstration in front of the Royal Thai Army Headquarters on Monday, deputy police spokesperson Pol Col Kissana Phathanacharoen said he was concerned that there might be a third party behind the protest, though he did not elaborate. 

 The demonstration, also organised by the Free Youth group and the Student Union of Thailand, used loudspeakers and set up a small stage in front of the army headquarters on Ratchadamnoen Road. 

 The protest mainly attacked the military and its spending budget. 

 The protest leaders said they were not a "casual mob" as they were labelled by a former army spokesperson. 

 Si Quey, who was convicted of killing seven children and accused of eating them, will finally be cremated, more than six decades after he died from the bullets of a firing squad. 

 The Corrections Department on Monday announced the cremation ceremony for Si Quey will be at Wat Bang Praek Tai in Muang district of Nonthaburi at 10am on Thursday. 

 Department director-general Naras Savestanan said Bang Kwang Prison will sponsor the rite. No-one had ever contacted the department with proof of a relationship with the killer. He was eventually declared a stateless person. 

 Si Quey was Thailand's most notorious serial killer. 

 He was convicted of murdering seven children and also accused of removing their internal organs and boiling and eating them. He was arrested in Rayong in 1958 and confessed to the murders, but denied the cannibalism charges. 

 Si Quey was executed by firing squad at Bang Kwang on Sept 16, 1959. He was just 32 years old. Siriraj Hospital took the body for medical study the same month. 

 His preserved cadaver was on display at the hospital's Medical Museum for medical students and the public to view. It was removed from the museum last year after a complaint by residents of Thap Sakae district of Prachuap Khiri Khan to the National Human Rights Commission that his dignity had not been protected as the exhibit branded him a cannibal. 

 The bodies of at least four of the children murdered and allegedly cooked and eaten by him were found in Thap Sakae district. The other murders were committed in Bangkok, Nakhon Pathom and Rayong, where he was arrested. 

 Siriraj Hospital replaced the label "Si Quey, Cannibal", with "Death Row Prisoner" in June last year. The exhibit was removed from public display in August. 

 Si Quey's name was often used by parents in the old days as a warning for children to behave: "If you misbehave, Si Quey will come and catch you." 

 Wat Bang Praek Tai, where he will be cremated, is one of two temples where religious ceremonies were held for inmates executed by firing squad at the prison. It is adjacent to Zone 11 of Bang Kwang Prison. 

 The bodies were taken out through a back door of the prison for cremation. 

 Si Quey was incarcerated and executed at Bang Kwang Prison. 

 The Public Health Ministry's Department of Medical Sciences (DMS) on Monday assured members of the public of its Covid-19 testing capability as the country prepares for fresh infections now that most businesses have reopened. 

 The director-general of the DMS, Opas Kankawinphong, on Monday outlined what the public health community was doing to prepare for the reemergence of the novel coronavirus even though the country has witnessed no local cases for more than 50 days. 

 He said the number of laboratories, public and private, has been boosted to 209 across the country, from an initial two when the outbreak started in January, and all of them can return results within 24 hours. 

 He also talked up Thailand's vaccine research efforts, increased local production of Covid-19 test kits, the development of new testing methods and investigation into mutations of the virus. 

 To expand testing capacity, the department has also collaborated with the Department of Communicable Diseases Control to roll out saliva tests which have proved to be easier, effective and less costly elsewhere. Currently, the RT-PCR "swab test" is used which is 95% accurate. 

 Dr Opas said the country was also moving closer to finding a Covid-19 vaccine after a second round of testing an mRNA vaccine on monkeys proved to be successful. Tests on humans are likely to take place in October. 

 He said the Department of Thai Traditional and Alternative Medicine was testing the effectiveness of the traditional medicinal herb fa talai jone, or andrographis, in fighting the virus and initial results were very promising. 

 In terms of testing, Mr Opas said that a total of 652,089 samples have been checked since January, with four in a 1,000 having come back positive. He said this indicated that public health authorities have been actively searching for Covid-19 cases. 

 "So we are ready and we have the resources to tackle any outbreak," he said. 

 Dr Opas added that the department is also monitoring virus strains. 

 "It is necessary to look for mutations to understand the threat it poses and so we can find drugs or develop vaccines," he said. 

 SAMUT PRAKAN: Police have arrested 11 young men after rioting broke out at two hospitals in Phra Pradaeng district on Sunday after a brawl between two rival groups that left one man dead and two injured. 

 Pol Col Panlop Aramla, deputy commander of Samut Prakan provincial police, said the arrests were made after investigators had obtained photos of the rioting captured by closed circuit television cameras at the two hospitals, as well as statements from two injured teenagers. 

 Pol Col Panlop said the rioting men damaged medical equipment at the two hospitals -- Vibharam Chaiprakarn Hospital and Muangsamut Poo Chao Hospital. 

 Samrong Tai police chief investigator Pol Lt Col Sumeth Salee said the two groups of men began fighting early on Sunday evening in front of a house in Moo 10 village in tambon Bang Ya Phraek. 

 One man, Ratchapong Wassana, 22, was stabbed in the right of his chest and seriously injured. He fell unconscious and was rushed by friends to Vibharam Chaiprakarn Hospital in Phra Pradaeng district. 

 Two members of the other group, identified later as Thanapol Thongchaiya, 21, and Chayakorn Hachai, 20, were also injured. They were admitted to Muangsamut Hospital, a few kilometres away from Vibharam Chaiprakarn Hospital. 

 At around 6pm at Vibharam Chaiprakarn Hospital, where Ratchapong was being treated in an emergency ward, about 20 of his friends arrived on motorcycles. 

 A doctor told them and a group of relatives that Ratchapong had died, despite their best efforts to save his life. This enraged his friends, who went on the rampage -- attacking the doctors other hospital staff and sending them fleeing in fear. 

 The rioting men damaged medical equipment, smashed glass doors and windows of the emergency ward and whatever they could lay their hands on. The mob then learned that two injured members of the other gang were in Muangsamut Poo Chao Hospital. They abruptly left on motorcycles, heading for the other hospital. 

 About 7.30pm on Sunday they arrived at Muangsamut Poo Chao Hospital on Poo Chao Saming Phrai Road. Carrying lengths of wood and even floor mops, they forced their way into the emergency ward where the two injured men were being treated, attacked the men's friends and began destroying equipment and furniture. 

 A nurse in the hospital said they followed their rivals everywhere, even in an emergency room and fought against each other inside that room. Witnesses said the rampaging mob fled in all directions as police arrived at the scene. 

 The ruling Palang Pracharath Party (PPRP) has proposed that Industry Minister Suriya Jungrungreangkit becomes the new energy minister in the upcoming cabinet reshuffle, saying the portfolio is among the party's quota. 

 Mr Suriya is a co-founder of the party's Sam Mitr faction, which insists that the energy post be returned from Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha's quota to the party's quota and that Mr Suriya be given the job. 

 The move follows Gen Prayut claim that it was his right to determine who should fill the position, as well as three other cabinet portfolios left vacant by the resignations of Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak, Finance Minister Uttama Savanayana, Energy Minister Sontirat Sontijirawong and Higher Education, Science and Innovations Minister Suvit Maesincee. 

 The four resigned last week along with Kobsak Pootrakul, deputy secretary-general of the prime minister, in a move they said would make it easier for Gen Prayut to implement his cabinet reshuffle. 

 Gen Prayut has also admitted to approaching some outsiders to join the economic team and fill these four cabinet seats, which has led to speculation that former deputy transport minister Pailin Chuchottaworn would be made the new energy minister. 

 Asked previously by Government House reporters if he would pick Mr Pailin as the new energy minister, Gen Prayut simply replied by asking what would be wrong with that. 

 Deputy party leader Paiboon Nititawan, however, said on Monday that Mr Pailin was unsuitable for the energy portfolio because he was a former executive of oil and gas company PTT and the government would end up being accused of having a conflict of interest if a man with his background were made the energy minister overseeing PTT's industry. 

 "As an executive of the PPRP I will nominate Mr Suriya for Gen Prayut's appointment of the new energy minister because he is qualified for the cabinet position given his educational background and work experience," said Mr Paiboon. 

 "This, however, won't affect the PM's right to have the final say on the cabinet reshuffle. All we, as a coalition partner, want is to get this straight. 

 "The energy ministry is seen as an indicator of righteousness, so, if our party misses out an opportunity to take care of the ministry, how could we explain that to the party's MPs?" 

 If the PM insists that the four economic cabinet minister positions -- transport, energy, agriculture and cooperatives, plus commerce are under his quota -- every cabinet position should be reviewed, he said. 

 A key figure in the coalition says the PPRP intends to nominate Mr Suriya at the party's meeting today. 

 Meanwhile, Deputy Prime Minister Gen Prawit Wongsuwon, who is also the PPRP leader, has dismissed speculation that he promised to make Mr Suriya the new energy minister in the cabinet reshuffle, saying it was a matter for the PM alone to decide. 

 The same key coalition figure said Gen Prayut was still undecided as to who should fill the four economic cabinet ministers' positions and intended to finalise that part of the reshuffle before anything else. 

 Gen Prayut on Monday had a private chat with Kasikornbank co-president Predee Daochai, a man he hopes will join the cabinet as new finance minister, the source said. 

 Education Minister Nataphol Teepsuwan, in his capacity as a deputy PPRP leader, said everyone in the party is entitled to have their own opinion and express it freely. He was confident the party's executives would nominate people suitable to be appointed to cabinet positions. 

 According to an informed source, a group in the PPRP is also pushing to nominate Mr Nataphol as the new energy minister. 

 In another development on Monday, the Chart Pattana Party has passed a resolution that its leader, Tewan Liptapanlop, should resign from the position of Prime Minister's Office Minister, said party adviser Suwat Liptapanlop. 

 Mr Suwat, who is the chairman of the party's advisory committee, said Mr Tewan duly submitted his resignation on Monday -- he thus became the the fifth minister to resign in quick succession -- and it would take effect today. Mr Suwat said the resignation would help pave the way for Gen Prayut to reshuffle the cabinet without further concerns. 

 Katerat Laothamatas, of the Action Coalition for Thailand, said the party had been notified by the office of the Labour Minister that its minister, MR Chatu Mongol Sonakul, also resigned on Monday. That has not yet been verified. 

 A small group of activists held a rally outside the Royal Thai Army headquarters on Monday in protest against a comment made by its former deputy spokeswoman. 

 The activists, who joined the Free Youth group's protest at the Democracy Monument in Bangkok on Saturday, rallied outside the main gate of the army headquaters on Ratchadamnoen Avenue. Their target was Col Nusra Vorapatratorn, who made a controversial remark on Facebook about Saturday's rally. 

 In the post, the former deputy army spokeswoman described the anti-government protesters as a "mung ming" mob, a modern slang term used to describe a young person who is innocent, naive and by implication, ignorant. She also wrote their time would be better spent making a living instead of taking to the streets. She later removed the post, but not before someone had captured it as a screenshot and shared it in social media. 

 Her post drew criticism from the protesters, who vowed to rally against her at the army head office. 

 The demonstration on Saturday, largely oganised by the Student Union of Thailand and the Free Youth group, demanded Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha dissolve the House, stop intimidating critics and start writing a new charter. 

 The army on Monday distanced itself from the colonel, saying the post was her opinion and not the position of the army, according to army spokesman Col Winthai Suvaree. 

 Col Nusra now serves at the Directorate of Operations. 

 The rally in Bangkok on Saturday, which drew about a thousand protesters, spread to Chiang Mai and Ubon Ratchathani on Sunday. 

 The students plan another rally to oust Gen Prayut at Mahasarakham University on Tuesday. Activists and students in other provinces also plan similar gatherings. 

 The army on Monday was also attacked for its plan to purchase a Gulfsteam jet worth 1.3 billion baht for generals and VIPs to replace its 30-year-old aircraft. The plan still needs cabinet approval. 

 Si Quey, who was convicted of killing seven children and accused of eating them, will finally be cremated, more than six decades after he died from the bullets of a firing squad. 

 The Corrections Department on Monday announced the cremation ceremony for Si Quey will be at Wat Bang Praek Tai in Muang district of Nonthaburi at 10am on Thursday. 

 Department director-general Naras Savestanan said Bang Kwang Prison will sponsor the rite. No-one had ever contacted the department with proof of a relationship with the killer. He was eventually declared a stateless person. 

 Si Quey was Thailand's most notorious serial killer. 

 He was convicted of murdering seven children and also accused of removing their internal organs and boiling and eating them. He was arrested in Rayong in 1958 and confessed to the murders, but denied the cannibalism charges. 

 Si Quey was executed by firing squad at Bang Kwang on Sept 16, 1959. He was just 32 years old. Siriraj Hospital took the body for medical study the same month. 

 His preserved cadaver was on display at the hospital's Medical Museum for medical students and the public to view. It was removed from the museum last year after a complaint by residents of Thap Sakae district of Prachuap Khiri Khan to the National Human Rights Commission that his dignity had not been protected as the exhibit branded him a cannibal. (continues below) 

 Si Quey. (Photo supplied by Chaiwat Satyaem) 

 The bodies of at least four of the children murdered and allegedly cooked and eaten by him were found in Thap Sakae district. The other murders were committed in Bangkok, Nakhon Pathom and Rayong, where he was arrested. 

 Siriraj Hospital replaced the label "Si Quey, Cannibal", with "Death Row Prisoner" in June last year. The exhibit was removed from public display in August. 

 Si Quey's name was often used by parents in the old days as a warning for children to behave: "If you misbehave, Si Quey will come and catch you." 

 Wat Bang Praek Tai, where he will be cremated, is one of two temples where religious ceremonies were held for inmates executed by firing squad at the prison. It is adjacent to Zone 11 of Bang Kwang Prison. 

 The bodies were taken out through a back door of the prison for cremation. 

 Si Quey was incarcerated and executed at Bang Kwang Prison. 

 The corrections department chief said people of Thap Sakae, human rights commissioners and prison officials will be invited to attend the cremation rite on Thursday. 

 BRUSSELS: EU leaders will resume their fractious summit on Monday to save an $860-billion coronavirus aid plan, hoping to offset some of the economic destruction unleashed worldwide by the pandemic. 

 The disease has killed more than 600,000 people globally out of nearly 14.5 million known infections, and with new clusters across the planet, alarm is growing about the virus spreading out of control. 

 Europe remains the worst-hit continent, with more than 200,000 deaths, but there is bitter dispute among European Union leaders on how to help its worst-hit -- and most indebted -- members such as Italy and Spain. 

 "Are the 27 leaders, responsible for the people of Europe, capable of building European unity and trust?" EU Council President Charles Michel asked the attending leaders, reminding them of the human cost of the crisis. 

 A handful of EU countries led by the Netherlands are reluctant to hand over such vast sums -- 750 billion euros -- to nations they regard as profligate, particularly Spain and Italy. 

 The summit will resume at 1400 GMT (7pm in Thailand) on Monday. 

 Many countries in the continent had largely brought their outbreaks under control and were considering further easing of restrictions before fresh clusters were detected. 

 France has made face masks compulsory in public indoor spaces, Spain asks millions to stay at home again, while the German state of Bavaria said it would soon offer free virus tests at airports. 

 But an anti-mask demonstration in London on Sunday highlighted the challenge still facing authorities and health experts despite the mounting COVID-19 toll. 

 Dozens gathered to protest the face mask requirement in England's shops and supermarkets,  many of them holding banners with widely discredited conspiracy theories -- such as coronavirus prevention measures being used for "mind control". 

 - Deadly US surge - 

 The United States -- the worst-hit country in the world -- has reported more than 60,000 new daily cases for six days. 

 With close to 3.8 million cases and more than 140,000 deaths, American authorities are struggling to contain the surge and US President Donald Trump has been criticised for his response to the crisis. 

 The devastation has left tens of millions jobless, and the poorest have been hit hardest by the economic downturn. 

 To help the less privileged and the homeless, one charity in Los Angeles has started a "community fridges" programme. 

 It involves seven colourful, clean and well-stocked refrigerators for anyone to access. 

 "If you need to empty the fridge, no one will judge you. If you need to take one tomato, or you only put one tomato in there, do it," said Marina Vergara, an organiser for LA Community Fridges. 

  

 

 - Mask measures - 

 Despite the vocal and stubborn opposition to lockdowns and face masks in some parts of the world, they remain among the few options for authorities to control new outbreaks in the absence of a vaccine. 

 There was grim evidence of how quickly the virus can spread over the weekend, with Iran's president saying an estimated 25 million people in the country have already been infected. 

 While Hong Kong's daily case count of 108 on Sunday was far below other parts of the world, city authorities tightened distancing measures further, pointing to the fear of uncontrolled infections. 

 That followed the Australian state of Victoria making face masks mandatory for millions in and around Melbourne last week. 

 But the tightened restrictions have also come with increased frustration over the economy and the inability to interact with others. 

 In the latest illustration of such a situation boiling over, police in Germany -- where bars and clubs remain closed -- said they were hit by a "hail of bottles" when they tried to break up an open-air party in the city centre. 

 "What I find especially abhorrent is that bystanders cheered and clapped when bottles hit my colleagues," said Frankfurt police chief Gerhard Bereswill. 

 Thailand on Monday reported one new imported coronavirus case, for an accumulated total of 3,250. 

 The new patient was a 52-year-old Thai man who worked as an electrician in Singapore, said Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman for the Centre for Covid Situation Administration. 

 The man returned to Thailand on July 6 and was in state quarantine when a test result came back positive on Friday.. 

 The death toll remained at 58, while 96 Covid-19 patients are currently in hospital. 

 Dr Taweesilp said 6,501 people who might have been exposed to the virus in Rayong had so far tested negative, along with 364 in Bangkok. Fears arose that a large number of people were exposed to the virus when a Covid-positive Egyptian who was supposed to be in quarantine while on a stopover visited shopping malls. 

 We seem to be at a standstill these days. Just when we believe things are starting to get back to normal, a new problem always seems to arise. At the end of the day, the health crisis and economic slump might not be the only major crises we’ll face in the future. Clearly, we as individuals and organisations must do something to overcome and prepare for change. 

 The only way to move forward is to work together with others, whether it’s across teams or various organisations working together toward a collective goal. As the popular saying goes: “United we stand, divided we fall”. Especially today when the whole world faces such uncertainty, the logical thing to do is to band together and support each other through collaboration. 

 How can collaboration alleviate the pain we go through during tough times? Let me explain. 

 First, it helps boost morale. We all face problems in life and are able to eventually get through them. But of course, when we face problems, we may find our motivation running low. When we have a strong support system, we are able to get back up faster thanks to positive support from others.  

 Second, collaboration supports individual strengths and helps minimise weaknesses. No one can be perfect in every single skill. This is why working with others who have different skill sets allows us to cover more ground and be able to achieve many goals together. 

 Third, collaboration promotes effective achievement of goals. As I mentioned, collaborating with people with different skills and backgrounds allows us to cover each other’s weaknesses. This promotes faster and more effective ways of working toward achieving our goals. As we pool our strengths, we also learn from one another. 

 Collaboration, when done effectively, can yield amazing results for individuals and businesses, but most importantly, for our people. So, how do we promote it in an organisation to make sure it yields the results we want as an organisation? How do we encourage collaboration for ourselves and for the organisation as a whole? 

 When it comes to anything beyond our own self, we may face challenges in getting along or being open to the ideas of others when engaging in collaboration. While it’s a great idea in a general sense, collaboration isn’t easy, especially for large organisations. It may be a difficult and daunting task to promote collaboration, but it is possible and the results can be fruitful in every way. Here are some ways to encourage your organisation to pursue collaboration. 

 First, develop the mindset of learning and openness. Although a simple concept, it can be difficult to apply, especially when you’re used to a certain way of working. However, to collaborate effectively with others to yield fruitful results, we need to step out of our own box and be open to learning from others.  

 This begins with our mindset, the foundation of our success. We can change our actions and behaviours but if we do not shift our inner values and beliefs, we will end up going back to our usual ways. 

 Second, make a habit of open conversations, such as giving or receiving feedback, or ideation during meetings. While we want to be open to others, we must promote open communication too. Openness is such an important part of collaboration as it builds on trust. 

 Third, integrate collaboration into the organisational culture. At the end of the day, what sustains effective collaboration is our ability to practise it in a safe space. When collaboration is part of the organisation’s daily routine, it becomes a habit, which in turn strengthens our ability to work with one another to develop new ways of working and solving complex problems. 

 Finally, make collaboration a part of the business strategy by setting goals. Many organisations face problems because they are built around departmental silos and lack cross-functional goals. If we set up special teams and goals for collaboration, it helps people. 

 Unity in times of trouble will always prove its importance in terms of both business survival and success in the future. We didn’t grow our businesses to where it is today by running the show by ourselves. We depended on our people and their abilities. During tough times, it is more important than ever to depend on each other. 

 Arinya Talerngsri is Chief Capability Officer and Managing Director at SEAC - Southeast Asia’s Lifelong Learning Center. She can be reached by email at arinya_t@seasiacenter.com or https://www.linkedin.com/in/arinya-talerngsri-53b81aa. Explore and experience our lifelong learning ecosystem today at https://www.yournextu.com 

 Five select groups of foreigners and migrant workers are expected to be allowed to enter the country as the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA) will consider the 6th phase of Covid-19 easing this week. 

 However, although the country has been free of local transmissions for 55 days, an opinion survey issued yesterday showed that public sentiment was still against plans to open the doors to foreigners. 

 CCSA spokesman Taweesilp Visanuyothin said at a press briefing on Sunday that a committee assigned to consider the easing of Covid-19 restrictions has discussed the 6th phase of relaxation and the issue will be tabled to a full meeting of the CCSA this week. 

 The relaxation will cover migrant workers in the construction business and food export industry, foreign visitors who co-organise trade exhibitions, foreign visitors in film production crews, and foreign travellers who are members of the Thailand Elite Card scheme, Dr Taweesilp said. 

 He insisted the government still gives top priority to public health safety, while keeping the economy functioning is of secondary importance. Effective disease control measures will restore public confidence, he said. 

 He said checks by officials have found that operators of businesses that are in the "red" or high-risk category and which have been allowed to reopen have cooperated and complied with disease control guidelines to curb the spread of the disease. 

 Asked by reporters what factors are taken into account when considering whether to extend or lift the emergency decree, Dr Taweesilp said the CCSA's subcommittee will discuss every angle of the situation based on information on public health, the economic impact and national security. 

 The spokesman denied claims the government had allowed people infected with Covid-19 from abroad, including Thai returnees and foreigners, to enter the country for the purpose of deterring anti-government protests. 

 "The Mam Pho Dam Facebook page has claimed that a plot is under way to import infected people to trigger a second small wave of infections and extend the emergency decree to prevent student protests," Dr Taweesilp said. 

 The spokesperson said Thai returnees from abroad have been allowed back home so they can go about their businesses which in turn will help improve the economy affected by the pandemic, though the government has made it mandatory for them to be quarantined at facilities arranged by the state upon arrival first. 

 The regulations also apply to a select groups of foreigners who will be allowed to enter the country, Dr Taweesilp said. 

 Foreign Ministry spokesman Cherdkiat Atthakor said the ministry has been informed by the Thai embassy in Russia that 102 Thai labourers in Uzbekistan who want to return to Thailand were tested and all of them had come back negative for the disease. 

 Meanwhile, the Disease Control Department reported the latest test results amid public concern about a shopping trip in Rayong by an infected Egyptian military officer and the arrival of the daughter of a Sudanese diplomat who tested positive for the disease late last week. 

 Last Friday, 1,374 more people were tested in Rayong. Of them, 1,369 tested negative while the test results of the remaining five are still pending. 

 Overall, more than 5,000 people have tested negative so far which is proof that disease control measures carried out to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections following the two health scares have succeeded, according to the department. 

 A total of 364 people at the same condominium building as the diplomat's daughter before she was admitted to hospital also tested negative for the virus, according to the department. 

 Meanwhile, a vast majority of Thais -- 94.5% -- say foreigners should be barred from entering the country to prevent a second wave of the Covid-19 spread, according to an opinion survey by the Suan Dusit Rajabhat University or Suan Dusit Poll. 

 The poll was carried out online on July 14-18 among 1,459 people throughout the country to gauge their reactions to the cases of an Egyptian airman and a Sudanese girl found to be infected with Covid-19 after they were allowed to enter the country. 

 Asked how they felt after hearing about the two cases, 52.2% of respondents said they were very worried; 39.68% fairly worried; 6.58% slightly worried; and 1.5% not worried at all. 

 Asked to mention five things that would worry them if there were a new wave of the Covid-19 spread, with each respondent allowed to give more than one answer, 95.89% cited the degree to which the disease spread; 94.45% unemployment; 92% a shutdown of businesses; 84.1% their children's schooling; and 84.1% another lockdown announcement. 

 According to the survey, a large majority, 73.8%, thought the chance that Thailand would announce a second lockdown was high. 

 Students, activists and ordinary Thais held a rally in Chiang Mai on Sunday demanding the ouster of Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha and his government. 

 A smaller protest was held in Ubon Ratchathani with the same demands, with the Free Youth group involved in the two peaceful gatherings. 

 Tha Phae Gate, one of the landmarks in the northern city, was surrounded by protesters giving their trademark three-finger salutel and displaying placards urging Gen Prayut and his government to step down. They also called for the dissolution of the House and a draft of a new constitution. 

 Police were at the scene urging them to end the rally, saying it violated the emergency decree and could cause a second wave of the novel coronavirus. 

 A student-led rally is held near the City Pillar Shrine in Muang district of Ubon Ratchathani on Sunday. (Photo from @Psolemn Twitter account) 

 In Ubon Ratchathani, a group of university and high school students, along with ordinary people, staged a rally near the City Pillar Shrine in the municipality calling for the government to step down. 

 "We really want to see changes," one student told the crowd in the northeastern city. 

 The two protests were peaceful and took place a day after a big rally at the Democracy Monument in Bangkok held by the Free Youth group and the Student Union of Thailand that drew several hundred protesters. It ended around midnight. 

 The rally in Bangkok was the first big political gathering since the start of the coronavirus outbreak. 

 Jatuporn Prompan, chairman of the red-shirt United Front for Democracy against Dictatorship, on Sunday sent a message to the protesters, saying they should make their demands loud and clear. Their statement calls for Gen Prayut to dissolve the House, end intimidation of citizens and draft a new charter. 

 On his Facebook page, Mr Jatuporn advised protesters to avoid the issue of the monarchy and called for patience and open-mindedness from authorities as the rally was held with good intentions. 

 Three new Covid-19 infections were found in Thais returning to the country from abroad, the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration said on Sunday. 

 Two of the cases returned to the country from Singapore: a 60-year-old man who arrived in Bangkok on July 6 and tested positive five days later, and a 43-year-old man who was tested after showing symptoms when he arrived at Suvarnabhumi airport on Friday.  

 The third case was a 39-year-old man who arrived from Sudan on Saturday. He also showed symptoms at the airport, was tested and then diagnosed with the disease. 

 Centre spokesman Dr Taweesilp Visanuyothin said all three new patients had no contact with the public and are now hospitalised. 

 The total number of confirmed cases was now 3,249, with fatalities unchanged at 58. 

 Although the country has been free of local transmissions for 55 days, a Suan Dusit Poll issued on Sunday indicated that public sentiment was still against plans to open the doors to foreigners. 

 With a ban on foreign tourists in place, the government is relying on local travellers to inject money into the tourism sector. 

  

 

 The government has introduced Rao Tiew Duay Kan (We Travel Together), a new stimulus campaign that subsidises 5 million nights of hotel accommodation. Tourists will pay only 60% of normal room rates, with the government responsible for the other 40%, with the subsidy capped at 3,000 baht per night for up to five nights.  

 More than 3.6 million people have signed up for the package since registration on the website began on Wednesday. 

 Deputy government spokeswoman Traisuree Taisaranakul said on Sunday most of the registrants had reserved for one-night stays in hotels in eastern and western provinces. Krabi was the most popular long-distance tourist destination so far, she added. 

 She warned all hotels joining the programme not to increase their room rates to take advantage of the 40% subsidy from the government.  

 The spokeswoman said any hotels caught price gouging will be terminated from the programme immediately. 

 The warning came after several registrants complained of inflated room rates on social media. One person wrote on a Facebook page that a hotel she planned to stay had advertised a rate of 2,200 baht per night, but the amount increased when she tried to register with the tourism promotion campaign. 

 The rate was now 4,000 baht per night, or 2,400 after the 40% discount rate, she wrote without naming the hotel. 

 A vast majority of Thais -- 94.51% -- say foreigners should be barred from entering the country to prevent a second wave of the Covid-19 spread, according to an opinion survey by the Suan Dusit Rajabhat University or Suan Dusit Poll. 

 The poll was carried out online on July 14-18 on 1,459 people throughout the country to gauge their reactions to the cases of an Egyptian soldier and a Sudanese girl found to be infected with Covid-19 after they were allowed to enter the country. 

 Asked how they felt after hearing about the two cases, 52.23% of respondents said they were very worried; 39.68% fairly worried; 6.58% slightly worried; and 1.51% not worried at all. 

 Asked to mention "five things" that would worry them if there were a new wave of the Covid-19 spread, with each respondent allowed to give more than one answer, 95.89% cited the degree to which the disease spread; 94.45% unemployment; 92.05% a shutdown of businesses; 84.17% their children's schooling; and 84.17% another lockdown announcement. 

 A large majority, 73.82%, thought the chance that Thailand would announce a second lockdown was high while 26.18% said this was unlikely. 

 Asked to suggest ways of preventing a new wave of the pandemic, 94.51% said foreigners should definitely not be allowed to enter Thailand; 86.41% said the process of screening and quarantine of people returning from abroad must be stringent; 83.80% said people must wear face masks while outdoors and frequently wash their hands; 81.40% said people must be given correct and clear information about the virus; and 76.73% said people should be given free testing for Covid-19. 

 Asked what the government should do to ease the people's concerns about the novel coronavirus, 47.38% said the screening and quarantine process must be made more stringent, without exemptions for "privileged" people; 33.43% said punishments should be imposed on those who violate the ban on foreigners entering Thailand; and 23.20% said the government must quickly solve coronavirus-related problems that could affect the people. 

 Radical disruption, driven by shifting demographics, rapid technological change, globalisation and the coronavirus pandemic is forcing universities to redefine their role and the value they provide to their students and society. 

 Suvit Maesincee, who resigned as minister of higher education, science, research and innovation spoke to the Bangkok Post just before he tendered his resignation last week. He shared his ideas on challenges faced by universities, what universities of the future will look like and how Thai universities can adjust themselves to change in the world's educational mobility. 

 THE ROAD AHEAD 

 Mr Suvit said universities are now facing at least three major challenges. The first comes from changes to the demographic structure of the country itself. 

 "On one hand, our birth rate has fallen drastically, so universities in the near future will not be able to rely on secondary school graduates any more. On the other hand, the average life expectancy for Thais is expected to improve due to better health technology," he said. 

 Mr Suvit believes that instead of competing to attract secondary school graduates, universities will need to focus more on retraining and re-skilling people who are already in the job market to help them survive tech disruption. 

 "As people live longer and work longer they will need to re-skill themselves again and again to keep up with the pace of technological change, so universities will have to expand their customer base, be more flexible and focus on more than just attracting secondary graduates," he said. 

 Mr Suvit said the current traditional model of universities as places at which students spend four years to get a degree for the rest of their lives will become irrelevant. Institutions will have to overhaul their curriculum to be more flexible and enable each student to learn at a pace that best suits their abilities and engage with content that is most beneficial to them. 

 Instead of focusing on providing students with the skills needed to turn them into able workers, universities should prepare students to become lifelong learners, he said. 

 "Universities must teach students to learn to think, analyse and appraise. Universities must transform themselves into learning spaces for students." 

 Mr Suvit said the next challenge universities face is technological disruption. 

 He said robotics and artificial intelligence technologies are transforming all industries, including the education sector. 

 Online learning has put half the colleges and universities in the United States at risk of shutting down over the next few decades because students can get comparable and affordable education over the internet without needing to live on campus or attend any classes in person, according to Mr Suvit. 

 "Technologies have evolved to a point that people can learn at any time, anywhere. If universities do not move quickly to transform themselves into educational institutions for a technology-assisted future, they risk becoming obsolete. 

 "The Covid-19 situation is a good example. We've seen how quickly schools and universities worldwide were forced to adopt online learning and distance learning. And people are getting used to it. I believe the adoption of online learning will continue to persist in the post-pandemic era," Mr Suvit added. 

 The minister said another challenge which universities cannot escape from is globalisation. 

 "The world has already become a big economic bloc with many smaller blocs connected to each other inside of it. Universities have to educate their students to be global citizens who have a global perspective," he said. 

 Mr Suvit believes universities in the near future will face more competition from foreign institutions which are also struggling with a declining number of students. 

 "The top institutions in the world will expand their services to new markets to find more customers. There will also be a free flow of talent. If Thai universities cannot improve their standing in the global stage, students will turn their back on them," said the former minister. 

 LOOKING TO THE FUTURE 

 Mr Suvit believes universities of the future will become places for people of all ages. 

 "Students will be able to create their own customisable degrees and teachers will create learning plans for students which will enable each student to learn at a pace that best suits their abilities and engage with content that is most beneficial to them. 

 "The old 'one-size-fits-all' model is outdated and has no place on the agenda of the institutions of tomorrow. 

 "Teachers will become facilitators of learning and students will have more control of their own learning journey." 

 Mr Suvit argued that universities will move towards a mix of degrees and shorter cycle courses. They'll also work with industry partners to co-create qualifications that respond to a shifting industrial climate and move rapidly with the changing needs of the workforce. 

 "Flexible learning experiences will be available on-demand 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and will be tailored to what each individual wants to achieve. 

 "Students will be able to study in multiple modes, switching seamlessly between on-campus, blended or wholly online, to suit their lifestyle and fit study with work and other activities," he said. 

 THE NEED FOR A NICHE 

 Mr Suvit said universities of the future should find their own niche or focus on a particular area that matches their expertise. 

 "The business model of being a multipurpose university with a combination of a range of degrees and faculties will not work. University administrators will have to choose the path they want and focus on a particular area such as teaching or certain types of research. 

 "Universities must also co-locate themselves with industry partners so they can collaborate on projects that solve real-world problems. They will become precincts of innovation that actively apply research for the benefit of communities," he said. 

 Mr Suvit also urged universities to overhaul their curriculum to keep subject knowledge up to date, close outdated majors and open new ones that are in line with the government's policies. 

 "At present, most universities in Thailand are still doing the same, providing whatever courses that can attract students to stay financially healthy," he said. 

 Mr Suvit said universities that fail to adapt and bring in enough revenue to cover their costs will be forced to downsize, merge with other institutions or even close down. 

 The Student Union of Thailand and the Free Youth group rallied at the Democracy Monument on Saturday against the government, threatening to step up their protests while police said they had not asked for permission to demonstrate. 

 Under the banner of "We Will No Longer Tolerate", the rally was joined by students from many institutions. Parit Chiwarak, aka Penguin, a Thammasat University student and political activist, was a rally leader. 

 The protesters delivered speeches showing their contempt for the government's work which included calls for the revocation of the emergency decree during the Covid-19 pandemic. 

 The Free Youth group demanded the government dissolve parliament immediately due to its failure to manage the economy, and stop threatening people by enforcing laws and using security reasons to silence them. The group also demanded the constitution be rewritten. 

 If the government does not respond to the demands within two weeks, the group said it would intensify the movement. 

 About 1,000 protesters showed up. They vowed to camp overnight at the Democracy Monument. 

 Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police Bureau, Pol Lt Gen Phakkhaphong Phongphetra, travelled to the rally site to command officers providing security there. He confirmed the rally was staged without permission. 

 Metropolitan police officers read a statement on violations against the emergency decree to the protesters. 

 Deputy spokesman for the Royal Thai Police Pol Col Kissana Phathanacharoen said national police chief Pol Gen Chaktip Chaijinda expressed concerned over the young protesters. 

 "Expressions of different political views are permissible as long as they do not violate the laws or other people's rights," he said. 

 Move Forward Party spokesman Nattacha Boonchaiinsawat said he agreed with the groups' demands for the government. 

 If the students were prosecuted for protesting yesterday, MPs of the Move Forward Party would step out to protect them, he said. 

 Several hundred people led by a group called Free Youth gathered on Saturday near the Democracy Monument in Bangkok to call for the dissolution of the House and a rewrite of the constitution. 

 The rally was the first major political demonstration since the end of most Covid-19 restrictions. And while the emergency decree, including a prohibition on public gatherings, remains in effect, government officials have said they would not apply it to political events if they remained peaceful. 

 Hundreds of police officers were on hand to keep the peace and the event went ahead largely without incident. At one point demonstrators began to push back a metal barrier that had been set up to keep the crowd from spilling into the road nearby, and the police eventually backed off. 

 “No one hates the nation here,” one protest leader said, as he led the crowd in singing the national anthem at 6pm. 

 The rally was staged to press three demands: dissolution of the House, a rewrite of the constitution and an end to official and judicial harassment of those critical of the government. 

 Earlier on Saturday, City Hall staff were seen arranging plants and flower pots at the base of the monument and barricading the area. In response to online criticism, officials said it was routine work, suggesting it had nothing to do with the planned rally scheduled at 5pm on the same day. (story continues below) 

 Demonstrators try to push barriers that police had set up to prevent them from spilling onto the street. The police finally gave up. (Photo by Wichan Charoenkiatpakul) 

 Prior to the event, organisers took to Twitter to remind those who planned on attending to wear masks and carry saline water (in case tear gas is used). 

 “112 free pizza also available for early birds,” read the tweet. (The pizza reference is a play on the delivery phone number of a local chain, which contains the numerals 112, the same as the Criminal Code section on lese majeste) 

 “Don’t leave this burden for our children who will have to endlessly demand justice. End it now,” the tweet added.  

 When people started to converge on the area at 5pm, they had no place to assemble and had to sit in front of a McDonald’s restaurant near the monument. 

 A number of men believed to be plainclothes officials took video and pictures of the gathering. 

 At 5pm, musicians from Rap Against Dictatorship performed a new song and sang their anti-establishment anthem Prathet Ku Mee with the demonstrators joining in.  

 Among the speakers at the rally was Free Youth secretary-general Tattep “Ford” Ruangprapaikitseree, one of the two activists who had brandished placards slamming the government for its mishandling of the quarantine of an Egyptian military delegation in Rayong province last week. 

 Other speakers were Mike Panupong, chairman of a group called Eastern Youth for Democracy, Juthathip Sirikan, chairwoman of the Student Union of Thailand, and Non Nattachon from Eastern Youth. 

 Mr Tattep took the stage at around 5.20pm, and took aim at the government’s mishandling of the Covid-19 situation. 

 “Some 500,000 of us are about to lose our jobs. How can we go on from here? The outbreak has almost been contained but the government dropped its guard and allowed infected VIP guests to enter,” he said. 

 He also said he thought the 2019 election would bring more freedom but people continue to be harassed. 

 “We want the government to do two things,” he said. “Stop harassing people and dissolve the House because the government is utterly ineffective. 

 “Besides, we’ve inherited a sinful legacy in the form of the 2017 constitution that prolongs the ruling power. So the third thing we need to do is to make a new one that truly belongs to the people.” 

 Parit Cheewarak, a co-leader of the Student Union of Thailand, told the crowd the gathering was a warning for the government. 

 “The emergency decree has been used to control people. The more it continues to be abused without legitimacy, the less sacred it becomes,” he said. 

 “Lift the decree immediately or the people will take the matter into their own hands.” 

 Ms Juthathip then asked the demonstrators to shine their mobile-phone flashlights on the monument and the sculpture of the constitution “to show how dark it has become”. 

 After that, the protesters chanted: “Prayut out”. The organisers pledged to stay overnight at the monument because “we’re so afraid it will disappear from this country”.  

 A handful of other symbols related to the 1932 revolution that overthrew absolute monarchy have vanished in recent years, with the government offering no explanations as to why.   

 The resentment of progressive young people has grown in recent months as they see the current elected government is not very different from the military junta that preceded it. 

 They have been highly critical lately of the unwillingness of the government to follow up on the disappearance of a self-exiled anti-government activist in Phnom Penh, and the commission to a psychiatric ward last week of a man who wore a T-shirt that said “I have lost faith in the monarchy”. 

 A police spokesman said no charges were laid in the latter case and a hospital official said the man had agreed to be admitted to psychiatric care, something his mother disputes. 

 Posters of missing activists are displayed at the rally site. (Photo courtesy of Thai Lawyers for Human Rights/ศูนย์ทนายความเพื่อสิทธิมนุษยชน  @TLHR2014) 

 “Democracy snacks” are sold near Satriwithaya School near Democracy Monument. Apart from anti-dictatorship books, pies and cookies shaped as the missing Khana Rassadon plaque and “freedom” chili paste were on offer sold. (Photo courtesy of Twitter Tula@cliche_t) 

 OAKLAND, California: A Twitter hacking scheme that targeted political, corporate and cultural luminaries this week began with a teasing message between two hackers late Tuesday on the online messaging platform Discord. 

 “yoo bro,” wrote a user named “Kirk”, according to a screenshot of the conversation shared with The New York Times. “i work at twitter / don’t show this to anyone / seriously.” 

 He then demonstrated that he could take control of valuable Twitter accounts — the sort of thing that would require insider access to the company’s computer network. 

 The hacker who received the message, using the screen name “lol”, decided over the next 24 hours that Kirk did not actually work for Twitter because he was too willing to damage the company. 

 But Kirk did have access to Twitter’s most sensitive tools, which allowed him to take control of almost any Twitter account, including those of former US president Barack Obama, former vice president Joe Biden, Tesla chief Elon Musk and many other celebrities. 

 Despite global attention on the intrusion, which has shaken confidence in Twitter and the security provided by other technology companies, the basic details about the people responsible, and how they did it, have been a mystery. Officials are still in the early stages of their investigation. 

 But four people who participated in the scheme spoke with The Times and shared numerous logs and screenshots of the conversations they had on Tuesday and Wednesday, demonstrating their involvement both before and after the hack became public. 

 The interviews indicate that the attack was not the work of a single country like Russia or a sophisticated group of hackers. Instead, it was done by a group of young people — one of whom says he lives at home with his mother — who got to know one another because of their obsession with owning early or unusual screen names, particularly one letter or number, like @y or @6. These are known as OG or “original gangster” names in the trade. 

 The Times verified that the four people were connected to the hack by matching their social media and cryptocurrency accounts to accounts that were involved with the events on Wednesday. They also presented corroborating evidence of their involvement, including the logs from their conversations on Discord, a messaging platform popular with gamers and hackers, and Twitter. 

 Playing a central role in the attack was Kirk, who was taking money in and out of the same Bitcoin address as the day went on, according to an analysis of the bitcoin transactions by The Times, with assistance from the research firm Chainalysis. 

 But the identity of Kirk, his motivation and whether he shared his access to Twitter with anyone else remain a mystery, even to the people who worked with him. 

 It is still unclear how much Kirk used his access to the accounts of people like Biden and Musk to gain more privileged information, like their private conversations on Twitter. 

 The hacker “lol” and another one he worked with, who went by the screen name “ever so anxious” told The Times that they wanted to talk about their work with Kirk in order to prove that they had only facilitated the purchases and takeovers of lesser-known Twitter addresses early in the day. They said they had not continued to work with Kirk once he began more high-profile attacks around 3.30pm Eastern time on Wednesday. 

 “I just wanted to tell you my story because i think you might be able to clear some thing up about me and ever so anxious,” “lol” said in a chat on Discord, where he shared all the logs of his conversation with Kirk and proved his ownership of the cryptocurrency accounts he used to transact with Kirk. 

 “lol” did not confirm his real-world identity but said he lived on the US West Coast and was in his 20s. “ever so anxious” said he was 19 and lived in the south of England with his mother. 

 Investigators looking into the attacks said several of the details given by the hackers lined up with what they had learned, including Kirk’s involvement both in the big hacks later in the day and the lower-profile attacks early on Wednesday. 

 The Times was initially put in touch with the hackers by a security researcher in California, Haseeb Awan, who was communicating with them because, he said, a number of them had previously targeted him and a Bitcoin-related company he once owned. They also unsuccessfully targeted his current company, Efani, a secure phone provider. 

 The user known as Kirk did not have much of a reputation in hacker circles before Wednesday. His profile on Discord had been created only on July 7. 

 But “lol” and “ever so anxious” were well known on the website OGusers.com, where hackers have met for years to buy and sell valuable social media screen names, security experts said. 

 For online gamers, Twitter users and hackers, so-called OG usernames — usually a short word or even a number — are hotly desired. These eye-catching handles are often snapped up by early adopters of a new online platform, the “original gangsters” of a fresh app. 

 Users who arrive on the platform later often crave the credibility of an OG username and will pay thousands of dollars to hackers who steal them from their original owners. 

 Kirk connected with “lol” late Tuesday and then “ever so anxious” on Discord early Wednesday, and asked if they wanted to be his middlemen, selling Twitter accounts to the online underworld where they were known. They would take a cut from each transaction. 

 In one of the first transactions, “lol” brokered a deal for someone who was willing to pay $1,500, in bitcoin, for the Twitter user name @y. The money went to the same bitcoin wallet that Kirk used later in the day when he received payments from hacking the Twitter accounts of celebrities, the public ledger of bitcoin transactions shows. 

 The group posted an ad on OGusers.com, offering Twitter handles in exchange for bitcoins. “ever so anxious” took the screen name @anxious, which he had long coveted. (His personalised details still sit atop the suspended account.) 

 “i just kinda found it cool having a username that other people would want,” “ever so anxious” said in a chat with The Times. 

 As the morning went on, customers poured in, and the prices that Kirk demanded went up. He also demonstrated how much access he had to Twitter’s systems. He was able to quickly change the most fundamental security settings on any username and sent out pictures of Twitter’s internal dashboards as proof that he had taken control of the requested accounts. 

 The group handed over @dark, @w, @l, @50 and @vague, among many others. 

 One of their customers was another well-known figure among hackers dealing in usernames — a young man known as “PlugWalkJoe.” On Thursday, PlugWalkJoe was the subject of an article by the security journalist Brian Krebs, who identified the hacker as a key player in the Twitter intrusion. 

 Discord logs show that while PlugWalkJoe acquired the Twitter account @6 through “ever so anxious”, and briefly personalised it, he was not otherwise involved in the conversation. 

 PlugWalkJoe, who said his real name is Joseph O’Connor, added in an interview with The Times that he had been getting a massage near his current home in Spain as the events occurred. 

 “I don’t care,” said O’Connor, who said he was 21 and British. “They can come arrest me. I would laugh at them. I haven’t done anything.” 

 O’Connor said other hackers had informed him that Kirk got access to the Twitter credentials when he found a way into Twitter’s internal Slack messaging channel and saw them posted there, along with a service that gave him access to the company’s servers. People investigating the case said that was consistent with what they had learned. A Twitter spokesman declined to comment, citing the active investigation. 

 All of the transactions involving “lol” and “ever so anxious” took place before the world knew what was going on. But shortly before 3.30pm, tweets from the biggest cryptocurrency companies, like Coinbase, started asking for bitcoin donations to the site cryptoforhealth.com. 

 “we just hit cb,” an abbreviation for Coinbase, Kirk wrote to “lol” on Discord a minute after taking over the company’s Twitter account. 

 The public ledger of bitcoin transactions shows that the bitcoin wallet that paid to set up cryptoforhealth.com was the wallet that Kirk had been using all morning, according to three investigators, who said they could not speak on the record because of the open investigation. 

 In several messages on Wednesday morning, “ever so anxious” talked about his need to get some sleep, given that it was later in the day in England. Shortly before the big hacks began, he sent a phone message to his girlfriend saying, “nap time nap time”, and he disappeared from the Discord logs. 

 Kirk quickly escalated his efforts, posting a message from accounts belonging to celebrities including Kanye West and tech titans like Jeff Bezos: Send bitcoin to a specific account and your money will be sent back, doubled. 

 Shortly after 6pm, Twitter seemed to catch up with the attacker, and the messages stopped. But the company had to turn off access for broad swaths of users, and days later the company is still piecing together what happened. 

 When “ever so anxious” woke up just after 2.30am in Britain, he looked online, saw what had happened and sent a disappointed message to his fellow middleman, “lol”. 

 “i’m not sad more just annoyed. i mean he only made 20 btc,” he said, referring to Kirk’s bitcoin profits from the scam, which translated to about $180,000. 

 Kirk, whoever he was, had stopped responding to his middlemen and had disappeared. 

 The government on Saturday reported seven new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), all returnees in state quarantine, bringing the total to 3,246 cases since January. 

 The country has been free of local transmission for 54 consecutive days. 

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman of the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration, said the new cases were returnees from the United States (2), Bahrain (1) and Egypt (4). All were in state quarantine facilities. 

 The two returnees from the US, aged 64 and 66, arrived in Thailand on July 11 and tested positive five days later. The former had a sore throat and the latter had phlegm. 

 The returnee from Bahrain was a 35-year-old employee. She arrived in Thailand last Sunday and was sent to a state quarantine facility in Chon Buri. On Wednesday, she tested positive with no symptoms. 

 The four other returnees from Egypt were students, aged 20-29. They arrived and tested positive on Friday and were sent to a hospital in Samut Prakan province. All coughed and had a runny nose and sore throat, said Dr Taweesilp. 

 The seven new cases brought the total to 3,246, of whom 3,096 had recovered. Ninety-two patients remained in hospitals, while the death toll remained at 58. 

 Global Covid-19 cases in 211 countries totalled 14.18 million, up by 242,381 in the previous 24 hours, with 599,339 deaths, up by 6,662. About 8.45 million, or 59.6%, of the total cases already recovered. 

 The US had the most cases, at 3.8 million, with 142,064 deaths. Brazil came second with 2 million cases and 77,932 deaths. Thailand ranked 101st worldwide in the number of cases.  

 According to Suvarnabhumi airport's daily data, 40 Thais returning from four countries were found to have a high fever on their arrival on Friday. They were among 600 returnees from Egypt, Singapore, Myanmar and South Korea on four flights. The feverish people were sent to hospitals while the rest were sent to state quarantine facilities. 

 The sudden resignations of key economic ministers in the Palang Pracharath Party (PPRP) are a signal of the diminishing negotiating power of Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha in the ruling coalition, which may keep him from getting his way in the upcoming cabinet reshuffle, says one observer. 

 Somjai Phagaphasvivat, a political scientist at Thammasat University, said the latest developments indicated the fight the PPRP has on its hands to control the government's handling of the economy and that Gen Prayut would have a hard time pushing for outsiders to be included in the new cabinet line-up. 

 Finance Minister Uttama Savanayana, Energy Minister Sontirat Sontijirawong, Higher Education, Science and Innovations Minister Suvit Maesincee, and Kobsak Pootrakul, deputy secretary-general of the prime minister, submitted their resignations on Thursday, a day after Somkid Jatusripitak resigned as deputy prime minister of the economic team. 

 The ministers' departures followed their formal resignation from the PPRP last week, a move that was widely anticipated following a party leadership change late last month when Mr Uttama was replaced by Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwon as the PPRP leader. 

 Mr Somjai said the four men had stepped down under pressure from party factions who supported Gen Prawit as the new leader and demanded that they give up their cabinet posts so they could be filled by others after they left. 

 These cabinet seats are believed to have been the prime minister's quota, so the fact the trio relinquished them showed Gen Prayut was losing his bargaining power, according to Mr Somjai. 

 However, he said Gen Prayut might get his way in the upcoming cabinet reshuffle if the PPRP failed to produce candidates with strong economic expertise to compete with those candidates preferred by the premier. 

 Following the resignations, Gen Prayut admitted he had approached "outsiders" to join the economic team and fill his quota of cabinet seats. 

 Among them are Siam Cement Group (SCG) former president and chief executive Kan Trakulhoon, chairman of the Thai Bankers' Association Preedee Daochai and the former CEO and president of the PTT oil and gas company, Pailin Chuchottaworn. 

 Mr Kan is tipped to fill the seat left vacant by Mr Somkid and Mr Preedee for the finance portfolio. Mr Palin, who served as deputy transport minister in the military government, is said to be in contention to become energy minister, which has also been reportedly targeted by several party figures, including Industry Minister Suriya Jungrungreangkit. 

 Stitorn Thananithichote, of the Office of Innovation for Democracy at the King Prajadhipok Institute, said although those candidates were well known in their own circles, they are "nobodies" to the general public. 

 He said their successes were more due to the organisations they worked for and had nothing to do with personal achievement, so it might be difficult for the prime minister to push for their nominations. 

 Mr Stitorn also said that while Mr Uttama's group was down they might not be out and were likely to return and team up with Gen Prayut again when the time is right. "But they are not forming a new party anytime soon," he said. 

 Jade Donavanik, a legal expert and former adviser to the Constitution Drafting Committee, said it would take a while before Mr Uttama's group could make a political comeback because the group has no political clout. 

 Headline inflation should remain at a low level for a period of time, though there is high uncertainty surrounding its path, the Bank of Thailand's chief said in an open letter to the finance minister. 

 The central bank's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) has projected headline inflation over the next 12 months (July 2020-June 2021) at -0.9% on average, a ratio lower than the monetary policy target, said governor Veerathai Santiprabhob. 

 On Dec 6, 2019, the finance minister and the MPC agreed to set the monetary policy target for price stability such that headline inflation would be within a range of 1.0-3.0% for the medium term and in 2020. 

 The agreement also designated the MPC to write an open letter to the finance minister should average headline inflation in the past 12 months or a forecast of average headline inflation over the next 12 months breach the target range. 

 On July 3, the Commerce Ministry issued a statement indicating that June headline inflation stood at -1.57%. This resulted in an average inflation rate of -0.31%, below the target, for the past 12 months (July 2019-June 2020). 

 The lower figure was attributed to supply-side pressures that would likely remain low, since a slow global economic recovery would continue to weigh on global energy prices. Despite lockdown measures being loosened in many countries, social distancing measures would remain in place, resulting in subdued economic activities. 

 Prices of goods would stay at low levels due to excess production capacity in many industries, following the gradual global economic recovery, Mr Veerathai said. But energy prices would likely be volatile as a result of pending geopolitical risks. 

 Although fresh food inflation would likely decelerate somewhat, given a high base in 2019, it would remain at a high level, partly owing to volatile weather conditions such as the drought that could affect supplies of certain agricultural products. 

 "The projection of negative headline inflation did not imply that Thailand was facing deflation risk at present," Mr Veerathai said. "First, overall prices of goods and services would not persistently contract. Headline inflation was projected to rise towards the target in 2021. 

 "Second, prices of goods and services contracted only in some categories. Prices of around 70% of goods and services in the inflation basket increased or remained stable. 

 "Third, the public medium-term headline inflation expectations remained anchored within the target." 

 Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha has confirmed that he has approached banker Predee Daochai to join a new cabinet lineup. 

 The prime minister acknowledged the move for the first time on Friday and said he was waiting for a reply from Mr Predee. 

 Mr Predee is a co-president of Kasikornbank and chairman of the Thai Bankers' Association. His name surfaced as a potential candidate for finance minister following the resignations of Uttama Savanayana and four other cabinet members, including Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak. 

 The prime minister said he needs the "right person" to steer the economy still in serious trouble because of the coronavirus outbreak. 

 Most forecasters expect Thailand, with its heavy dependence on foreign tourism, to post the worst economic contraction in Southeast Asia this year, possibly in the range of 8%. 

 Gen Prayut denied reports that National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDC) secretary-general Thosaporn Sirisumphand had been asked to join the new economic team, adding that no civil servants would be approached to leave the bureaucracy to join the lineup. 

 "I am still working as the NESDC secretary-general with a mission to oversee and screen projects under the 400-billion-baht borrowing scheme," Mr Thosaporn said in a post on the NESDC Facebook page. 

 "However, I am happy to help and support the prime minister on any given assignments after my retirement," added Mr Thosaporn, who will retire at the end of September. 

 Meanwhile, former central bank governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul has declined an invitation to join the revamped cabinet, said Gen Prayut. 

 He told reporters that Mr Prasarn had family commitments that prevented him accepting the offer. 

 Gen Prayut said that a new cabinet line-up will be finalised "no later than next month". 

 The cabinet shake-up will not be a major one, Gen Prayut told reporters. 

 The prime minister said that as several coalition parties share control of the economic ministries, he will be the head of the government's economic team himself, and admitted that as the economic situation is challenging right now, the new economic team will have a lot to contend with. 

 Asked whether Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwon would swap cabinet seats with Interior Minister Anupong Paojinda, Gen Prayut said that Gen Prawit will still retain his post as deputy prime minister. 

 Asked if he will continue to concurrently serve as defence minister, Gen Prayut replied: "Why not? It will remain the same." 

 News of changes to the make-up of the cabinet line up came after Mr Uttama and three others handed in their resignation letters with immediate effect on Thursday. 

 The three others were Energy Minister Sontirat Sontijirawong, Higher Education, Science and Innovations Minister Suvit Maesincee, and Kobsak Pootrakul, deputy secretary-general of the prime minister. 

 They were members of the economic team led by Mr Somkid, who resigned on Wednesday. 

 Their resignations came after they had relinquished their membership in the Palang Pracharath Party (PPRP) last week following a party leadership change late last month when Mr Uttama was replaced by Gen Prawit as the PPRP leader. 

 Gen Prawit said yesterday that the three cabinet seats left vacant after the resignations of the three ministers are part of the prime minister's quota. 

 The prime minister will decide who will fill the posts, Gen Prawit said, adding that the appointment of economic ministers is also the prerogative of the prime minister and has nothing to do with the PPRP. 

 Regarding cabinet seats under the PPRP's quota, Gen Prawit would only say that it will become clear after a meeting of the party's executive board on Tuesday. 

 Deputy Prime Minister Wissanu Krea-ngam yesterday admitted that the resignations of the three ministers will affect the work of the government at least for now. 

 In light of this, Mr Wissanu said that at a cabinet meeting on Tuesday, the prime minister will decide who will serve as acting ministers for the Energy Ministry and the Higher Education, Science and Innovations Ministry after the resignations of Mr Sontirat and Mr Suvit. There are no deputy ministers at the two ministries, Mr Wissanu said. 

 However, there will be no problem at the Finance Ministry because the deputy finance minister will be in charge as acting minister, Mr Wissanu said. 

 Addressing the imminent cabinet shake-up, Deputy Prime Minister and Commerce Minister Jurin Laksanawisit, who is the Democrat Party's leader, said yesterday that the prime minister has not discussed the matter with him yet. 

 "The party will not do anything until there is a signal from the prime minister," Mr Jurin said. 

 Asked by reporters if the Democrat Party will remain in the coalition if its quota of cabinet seats changes in the shake-up, Mr Surin insisted that the party's conditions for joining the coalition will remain unchanged. 

 Digital Economy and Society Minister Buddhipongse Punnakanta, who is the PPRP's deputy leader, said that the party's executive committee will discuss who will be nominated for cabinet seats under the party's quota at a meeting on Tuesday 

 Asked by reporters if a quota of cabinet seats for Bangkok-based ministers, including himself, will be reduced, Mr Buddhipongse said: "I believe there will be no back-stabbing. We respect each other." 

 Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha has confirmed that he had approached banker Predee Daochai to join a new cabinet lineup and dismissed reports that the head of the National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDC) was a candidate. 

 The prime minister acknowledged for the first time on Friday that he had contacted Mr Preedee to join the government and said he was waiting for a reply. 

 Mr Predee is a co-president of Kasikornbank and chairman of the Thai Bankers' Association. His name surfaced as a potential candidate for finance minister following the resignations of Uttama Savanayana and four other cabinet members, including Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak. 

 The prime minister said he needs the “right person” to steer an economy still in serious trouble because of the coronavirus outbreak. Most forecasters expect Thailand, with its heavy dependence on foreign tourism, to post the worst economic contraction in Southeast Asia this year, possibly in the range of 8%. 

 Gen Prayut denied reports that NESDC secretary-general Thosaporn Sirisumphand had been asked to join the new economic team, adding that no civil servants would be approached to leave the bureaucracy to join the lineup. 

 “I am still working as the NESDC secretary-general with a mission to oversee and screen projects under the 400-billion-baht borrowing scheme to achieve its goals,” Mr Thosaporn said in a post on the NESDC Facebook page. 

 “However, I am happy to help and support the prime minister on any given assignments after my retirement.” 

 Mr Thosaporn will retire at the end of September. 

 The name of Prasarn Trairatvorakul has also surfaced as a target of the prime minister but Gen Prayut said the family of the former Bank of Thailand governor did not want him to get involved. 

 Mr Prasarn and Boontuck Wungcharoen, a former chief executive of TMB Bank, have been tipped as candidates for deputy prime minister overseeing economic policy, the position formerly held by Mr Somkid. 

 The prime minister has promised to complete the new lineup by August and also indicated on Friday that he would continue to keep the top job at the Defence Ministry. 

 “Today I am still steering this horse. Everything remains unchanged,” he said when asked about his double duty as the prime minister and defence minister. 

 Foreign visitors still stranded in the kingdom by the Covid-19 pandemic will be allowed to apply for an extended short stay after their visas expire on July 31, the Immigration Bureau chief said on Friday. 

 Foreign tourists who are unable to leave Thailand would be given a grace period from Aug 1 to Sept 26 to apply to stay for a specified period, said Pol Lt Gen Sompong Chingduang, the bureau commissioner. However, if they do not obtain extensions and are still in the country after Sept 26, they would face legal action and be blacklisted. 

 He urged foreigners to contact the bureau as soon as possible to prepare for their next steps in order to avoid crowding as the Sept 26 deadline approached. 

 Foreign visitors must specify their reasons and submit necessary documents when seeking to renew short-term visas, which will be granted for 30 days, he said. 

 "If they are unable to return because there are no flights or due to lockdown measures in their countries, they must submit proof. The granting of a short-stay visa will be made on a case-by-case basis," Pol Lt Gen Sompong said during a visit to Phuket, a province with a high number of stranded foreigners.  

 He said the bureau had asked the Council of State about the proposed short stay and it had advised that the Interior Ministry could issue an announcement.  

 He said the Interior Ministry's visa relief measures for foreign visitors would be submitted to the cabinet for approval next Tuesday. The bureau would later issue guidelines on how to apply for a visa extension. 

 He said those who planned to return to their home countries did not need to contact the bureau but also had to leave Thailand by Sept 26. 

 He estimated that between 300,000 and 400,000 foreigners were stranded in the kingdom due to the lockdown.  

 The government earlier automatically extended their visas until July 31, but they must still inform authorities where they are staying. 

 Foreign nationals queue up  in front of the Immigration Bureau temporary office at the Central Investigation Bureau Building in Muang Thong Thani last week. (Immigration Bureau photo) 

 The government will direct meetings, tourists, promotions, football matches and concerts with spectators, and film crews, to Rayong province to revitalise the tourism sector there. 

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman for the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA), said on Friday the plan would help Rayong after the Covid-19 scare there. 

 He said a CCSA subcommittee proposed five measures to help Rayong. 

 The first, the promotion of meetings and seminars arranged by government agencies in the province. This could be done immediately. 

 Secondly,  promote tourism in Rayong by giving trips to Rayong to village health volunteers and other medical personnel. 

 "Tours of these personnel will go to Rayong first," Dr Taweesilp said. 

 Thirdly, organise football games by Thai League teams in a New Normal style. 

 Fourthly, arrange appropriate forms of live concerts. 

 There would be spectators at the football matches and concerts. The New Normal way of football games and concerts would be trialed first in Rayong, and officials would test disease control measures for such events in Rayong, Dr Taweesilp said. 

 And fifthly, allow both Thai and foreign film production crews into the province. The crews would stay at "Villa Quarantine" facilities. 

 The five measures were proposed to help the people of Rayong after a Covid-19 infected Egyptian soldier visited the province without staying in state quarantine. The health scare led to mass cancellations of bookings at hotels and resorts made after the government began promoting domestic tourism as a way out of the economic disaster caused by the coronavirus pandemic. 

 Asked about Buriram United's foreign footballers, who will return to Thailand on July 19, the spokesman said they were not VIPs. The three players, one from Croatia and two from Serbia, will fly from Serbia to Thailand on a private charter flight, landing at Don Mueang airport. 

 If they tested negative upon arrival, they could continue to Buri Ram province and stay at alternative local quarantine facilities there. If they tested positive they would be sent to hospital for treatment, he said.  

 Disease controls are being tightened for arriving foreign diplomatic staff, the Foreign Ministry announced on Friday, as it emerged a European diplomat was refused entry by the management of a condominium building on Thursday night. 

 Ministry spokesman Cherdkiat Atthakor said on Friday the Bangkok-based  "Western diplomat" had returned from leave in his homeland. 

 The diplomat departed Frankfurt at 10pm on Wednesday and arrived at Suvarnabhumi airport at 2pm on Thursday. 

 The diplomat tested negative for Covid-19 before boarding the plane and again after landing at Suvarnabhumi airport, the spokesman said. 

 As required, the diplomat waited for the test result at Suvarnabhumi airport before leaving there for the residence assigned for quarantine by the embassy, Mr Cherdkiat said. 

 However, the management of the condominium refused entry, and the Foreign Ministry had the diplomat move to a hotel for the night. 

 Mr Cherdkiat, director-general of the ministry's information department, said  the diplomat proved to be free of Covid-19 and had observed the regulations of Thailand, which allowed diplomats to be quarantined at assigned residences for 14 days. The condominium in question was an assigned quarantine place, he said. 

 "Measures are being tightened for diplomats. Right now, this is a transitional period," Mr Cherdkiat said. 

 After the Covid-19 case of the arriving daughter of the Sudanese attaché, the government had asked foreign diplomats to wait for a negative test result before leaving the arrival airports. The diplomat had complied on Thursday, he said. 

 "We are aware of the feeling of Thai society, which wants to be free of covid," he said. Other foreign diplomats would be arriving, but their numbers would be limited. 

 According to media reports the diplomat refused entry to the condo is Estonian and works for the European Union. 

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman of the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration, said the diplomat  was instead quarantined at Grande Centre Point Terminal 21 hotel - an alternative state quarantine facility where people pay for their own accommodation and treatment. A private hospital supervises the quarantine at the hotel. 

 He said the diplomat reached the hotel at 11pm on Thursday. He confirmed that foreign diplomats must go into quarantine on arriving in Thailand. 

 On Friday afternoon, the government's Covid-19 information centre confirmed on its Facebook page that the diplomat was the first secretary of the Delegation of the European Union in Thailand, and was Estonian. 

 The government on Friday reported three new cases of coronavirus disease, all quarantined Thai returnees from Sudan on the same flight as a diplomat's infected daughter, raising total to 3,239. 

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman of the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration, said they were women, aged 22, 23 and 28 years, who arrived on July 10 on the same flight as the infected daughter of the Sudanese attaché in Bangkok. 

 The three were quarantined in Chon Buri province. Two are students, aged 22 and 23, and tested positive for the disease on Tuesday while being asymptomatic. 

 The other had a fever and excessive phlegm and a cough but her first test was negative She tested positive in a second test on Wednesday. 

 There were 245 people on the flight, and 12 of them were earlier confirmed infected, Dr Taweesilp said. 

 To date, 450 Thai people had returned from Sudan, and 21 of them had Covid-19. 

 "The situation shows a global crisis. And as such, this country needs good measures in place to cope with it," Dr Taweesilp said. 

 Of 3,239 accumulated Covid-19 cases, 3,096 had recovered including one released on Thursday. Eighty-five patients remained at hospitals and the death toll was unchanged at 58. 

 Globally, Covid-19 cases rose at the fastest pace yet over the past 24 hours, by 255,010 to 13.95 million, Dr Taweesilp said. The death toll rose by 5,856 to 592,677. The United States had the most cases at 3.69 million, up by 73,388, and the most deaths at 141,118, up by 978. 

 Brazil ranked second, with the number of cases rising to 2.01 million, up by 43,829, with 76,822 deaths, up by 1,299. Thailand ranked 101st. 

 About 2,500 people were tested for Covid-19 in Rayong and Bangkok on Wednesday and Thursday following the double health scare, about half the results were in and so far all were negative, the Disease Control Department chief said on Friday. 

 Director-general Suwannachai Wattanayingcharoenchai reported on the test results amid public concern about a shopping trip in Rayong by an infected Egyptian soldier and the arrival in Bangkok of an infected girl from Sudan, a diplomat's daughter, late last week. 

 On Tuesday 1,336 people were tested in Rayong and 267 people in Bangkok. The people were at the same hotel and malls where the Egyptian military delegation were at in Rayong, and at the condominium where the daughter of the Sudanese attache stayed before being admitted to a hospital. 

 Dr Suwannachai said all of those people tested negative. 

 On Wednesday 1,252 more people were tested in Rayong and 1,247 of them had come back negative. Five other cases were awaiting the results. 

 On Thursday 1,244 more people were tested in the eastern province and 97 people in Bangkok. Their results were pending. 

 Those with negative results should still strictly observe disease control measures including wearing face masks, regularly wash their hands, use only personal objects, observe safe distancing and reduce trips away from their residences for 14 days, Dr Suwannachai said. 

 Late on Friday morning Dr Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman of the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration, said that of 1,244 tests in Rayong on Thursday, 564 had now returned negative and all 97 people checked on Thursday in Bangkok were negative. 

 The negative results included 19 people at high risk of infection in Rayong and Bangkok, he said. 

 The National Security Council (NSC) insisted on Thursday two controversial Covid-19 cases involving a military official from Egypt and a nine-year-old girl from Sudan would not be used as an excuse to extend enforcement of the state of emergency set to expire at the end of this month. 

 NSC chief Gen Somsak Roongsita said whether or not enforcement of the decree, invoked in March to bring the pandemic in the country under control, is extended would depend on the overall Covid-19 situation and the number of infections. 

 He admitted that both Covid-19 cases posed public health risks, but said the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA) has not made a decision on the emergency decree yet. 

 The first case involved an Egyptian delegation, including a military official confirmed to be infected with Covid-19, when they broke quarantine rules during their stay in Rayong. 

 The other involved a nine-year-old Sudanese girl who tested positive and her family who were reportedly self-isolating at a Bangkok condominium. 

 The two cases triggered widespread anger among the public. 

 Gen Somsak also said that while the relaxation of lockdown measures creates risks, those risks are calculated with measures put in place to mitigate them. 

 However, there are loopholes that need to be addressed too, he said. 

 "It doesn't mean the disease control measures have failed. The incidents should serve as a lesson for the government which will eventually have to reopen the country. 

 "We have to admit the CCSA has erred and the officials have been lax. We will address these concerns," he said. 

 Meanwhile, air force commander ACM Maanat Wongwat said on Thursday Thailand will just have to do better with its disease control measures as he insisted the country cannot simply close its airspace to military flights. 

 He said that like other countries, Thailand has allowed military flights during the lockdown but there had been no untoward incidents until now. 

 ACM Maanat said authorities in charge of disease control will have to make sure foreign delegations strictly comply with regulations and measures to prevent the spread of the virus. The government has given such an assurance in the wake of the incident. 

 "The world is still fighting the Covid-19 pandemic and we have yet to neutralise this virus threat. At the same time, countries throughout the world still have to interact with each other, but they pick their own sets of rules to curb the virus," he said. 

 Thailand's telcos are optimistic about their ongoing rollout of 5G infrastructure and its ability to ignite not just technological but also substantial social change in the country and beyond, according to representatives from the country's two largest telcos at Bangkok Post's 5G: The Game Changer conference on Thursday. 

 Vichaow Rakphongphairoj, the executive vice-chairman of True Corporation, said 5G take-up is expected to be significantly faster than 4G in the worldwide market. By 2025, 5G subscriptions will account for around 30% of all mobile subscriptions. Moreover, China will likely have the highest number of 5G subscribers, totalling one billion. 

 Covid-19 has had an impact on all business sectors across the globe with market capitalisation declining sharply by around 20-30% and unemployment skyrocketing to 188 million. 

 Vichaow Rakphongphairoj, executive vice chairman of True Corporation Plc, gives a speech at the forum. (Photo by Pattarapong Chatpattarasill) 

 A panel discussion ‘Unlocking Business Opportunities’ is held at the forum. From left: moderator Pat Jungkankul and panellists: Woragarn Likhitdechasakdi, deputy chief technology officer of Carrier Network, Huawei Technologies (Thailand) Co Ltd; Kantapong Chanthanawan, vice president of digital health transformation of Thonburi Healthcare Group; Krisda Utamote, director of corporate communications of BMW Group Thailand; Thakorn Piyapan, chairman of Krungsri  Consumer and head of digital banking and innovation of the Bank of Ayudhya; and Thanida Suiwatana, chief business officer of Lazada Thailand. (Photo by Pattarapong Chatpattarasill) 

 Regarding Thailand, Mr Vichaow said the country is a leader in embracing 5G technology in the Asean region thanks to 5G licences auctions earlier this year and network roll-outs by major operators. 

 Although the Covid-19 has created new practices of working from home, social trends, analytics, e-learning and security, and health and wellness, 5G will enrich this new normal. 

 "5G can help forge the country's recovery through low latency, ultra-high-speed connectivity and wider bandwidth," he said. 

 Mr Vichaow added that 5G will help push up transformative industries for Thailand including supply chains and logistics, operation and production, product innovation, sales and marketing, and service and support. 

 They would have to be done through monitoring and tracking, maintenance, smart surveillance, augmented reality, connected vehicles, remote operations, and autonomous robotics. 

 However, there are several challenges that still remain to enable 5G adoption such as cross-sector cooperation in vertical industries, high-spectrum costs, high capital expenditure, and high operating cost. 

 An increase in 5G infrastructure investment is a critical need currently to allow the overall recovery of the economy as well provide a fundamental shift in serving digitisation, Pratthana Leelapanang, Chief Consumer Business Officer of Advanced Info Service (AIS) said at the conference on Thursday. 

 He added that the company is committed to expanding its 5G investment in order to create a new infrastructure for the country through Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) projects and core sectors to lead Thailand's recovery in a post-pandemic world. 

 A panel discussion on ‘What consumers really expect’. From left: moderator Pat Jungkankul; Aticharn  Cherngchavano (OUSpin9) Content Creator; Panraphee Raphiphan, founder and CEO of aHappener Co Ltd; and Pongsuk Hiranprueck, CEO of Show No Limit Co Ltd. (Photo by Varuth Hirunyatheb) 

 The audience listens during the conference. (Photo by Varuth Hirunyatheb) 

 AIS is prepared to invest a budget of 35 billion to 40 billion baht to develop digital infrastructure. Moreover, AIS has already been providing 5G network coverage in all 77 provinces since May. 

 To push Thailand's recovery, Mr Pratthana said there are five core categories that AIS will boost investment in to meet this goal. 

 First, the industrial sector in the EEC must be enhanced in management capability in all areas including the ground, air, and marine sectors. 

 Currently, Amata Corporation, Saha Pathana Inter-Holding, and WHA Group are testing a 5G smart city. 

 Moreover, BBS Joint Venture Group, co-investor of U-Tapao Airport Development Project and Eastern Aviation City have begun testing a 5G smart airport while the Port Authority of Thailand is testing 5G in Laem Chabang Port. 

 Second, AIS will continue supporting telemedicine in the public health sector via its Robot for Care project. 

 Some foreign guests take part in the Bangkok Post Conference 2020 ‘5G:The Game Changer’. (Photo by Varuth Hirunyatheb) 

 Pratthana Leelapanang, chief consumer business officer of Advanced Info Services Plc, delivers a speech on the topic ‘Reshaping Thailand’s digital revolution’ at the Bangkok Post Conference 2020 ‘5G: The Game Changer’ at the Centara Grand at CentralWorld Hotel in Bangkok. (Photo by Pattarapong Chatpattarasill) 

 Third, AIS is working on 5G Smart Retail with Central Retail Group to pioneer the retail industry to cover the upstream, midstream, and downstream lives of people, including fairer wealth distribution between the producer and the buyer. Moreover, it hopes to push the employment capacity to 2 out of 3 in the country. 

 Fourth, AIS plans to help develop new multimedia to create an immersive experience with AR/VR technology, along with the Tourism Authority of Thailand to create a new unseen Thailand experience to attract both Thai and foreign tourists, with Thailand's first Reality AR/VR Studio. 

 Last but not least, AIS will help promote sustainable development with 5G for the environment, agriculture, and sustainable urban development. It has partnered with Thammasat University to create an SDG [Sustainable Development Goal] Lab on the 100 rai of land at Thammasat University's Rangsit Campus as a model for Thais to recognise the significance of looking after the environment. 

 Mr Pratthana added that building ecosystem partnerships are a core factor for improving the efficiency of 5G implementation in the country. 

 Despite being in the relatively early stage of implementation, 5G use cases are already proliferating in Thailand and are beginning to transform businesses across sectors, said a panel of industry experts at yesterday's Bangkok Post Conference on "5G: The Game Changer". 

 Woragarn Likhitdechasakdi, deputy chief technology officer of the carrier network at Huawei Technologies Thailand, said the country is on a rapid pace for 5G adoption in terms of network roll-out and has already demonstrated a variety of use cases. 

 "The country is on a rapid pace for 5G adoption in terms of network roll-out." —  Woragarn Likhitdechasakdi, Deputy chief technology officer of the carrier network, Huawei Technologies Thailand 

 5G can reshape businesses, add value and bring about wholly new business models, Mr Woragarn said, and in Thailand multiple sectors will be transformed, from healthcare to transport to tourism. 

 The Covid-19 outbreak will drive adoption of 5G in the healthcare sector, which can be served in three areas: tele-consultation with physicians, remote diagnosis via analytics by artificial intelligence, and preventive care. 

 Smart ports, especially those in the Eastern Economic Corridor, can use 5G-connected cranes with remote control vehicles and surveillance, as well as augmented reality for maintenance. 

 According to Mr Woragarn, the agricultural sector can use 5G-connected drones, robotics and analytics systems to improve crop yields, while the tourism sector can use augmented reality glasses and live broadcasting to attract tourists to new destinations. 

 Globally, various 5G-enabled devices are ready for consumers, including smartphones, CCTV, fixed wireless access devices and 5G module chipsets, all helping to speed adoption of 5G among the public. 

 Some technologies cannot run effectively on 4G, such as connected drones, wireless robotics, cloud-enabled virtual reality/augmented reality and connected AI-assisted vehicles, and must rely on 5G networks. 

 "We need to select focused industries and digital awareness and skills to move forward with a digitised Thailand," Mr Woragarn said. 

 Kantapong Chanthanawan, vice-president for digital health transformation at Thonburi Healthcare Group, said 5G technology is expected to have a significant and positive impact on the healthcare industry in the near future. 

 "5G connectivity can bring the hospital to your doorstep." —  Kantapong Chanthanawan, Vice-president for digital health transformation, Thonburi Healthcare Group 

 "The low latency and high performance of 5G will make things like 'tele-presence', where a surgeon watches a real-time operation and can provide expert support, and 'tele-surgery', where the doctor actually operates the surgical device remotely, possible," Mr Kantapong said. 

 Moreover, it may no longer be necessary for patients to be taken to hospital. Instead, they can undergo a remote consultation, saving both the doctor and the patient time and making it possible for individuals who struggle to receive care to obtain proper treatment. 

 "5G connectivity can bring the hospital to your doorstep," Mr Kantapong said. "Patients will no longer visit hospitals for their check-ups or minor ailments. Hospitals in the future will be the place only for patients in critical condition." 

 Krisda Utamote, corporate communications director at BMW Thailand, said the automotive industry is seeing four key disruptions dubbed ACES: autonomous driving, connected cars, electrified vehicles and shared mobility. 

 "5G will make self-driving cars possible." — Krisda Utamote, Corporate communications director, BMW Thailand 

 He said 5G technology will play an important role in autonomous driving and connected cars. 

 "5G will make self-driving cars possible," Mr Krisda said. "It will also enable cars to interact with road infrastructure, traffic lights, drivers and even passengers through 5G-enabled smartphones, which could prevent accidents, avoid traffic jams and create safer and more efficient driving." 

 He said 5G tech will revolutionise how vehicles are built, as automakers employ wirelessly connected production robots to work on car body construction. It will also affect how cars are serviced, as repair shops tap secure software updates for complex telematics systems. 

 "5G will also influence how passengers enjoy the ride, as its high speed and low latency allow for more seamless streaming of entertainment," Mr Krisda said. 

 BMW has already announced plans to launch the first premium vehicle to carry standard 5G wireless in 2021. 

 Thakorn Piyapan, chairman of Krungsri Consumer and head of digital banking and innovation at Bank of Ayudhya, said 5G will be a boon for the customer experience in the financial and banking sector. 

 "5G can help ensure financial security." — Thakorn Piyapan, Chairman, Krungsri Consumer, and head of digital banking and innovation, Bank of Ayudhya 

 He said mobile banking apps are very important tools for financial transactions among customers. 

 In the past, many app developers may have been concerned about large apps that might be inconvenient for clients to download or make transactions with. 

 "5G can make it possible for developers to pay less attention to optimising apps and instead may add a lot more features," Mr Thakorn said. "This would ensure a better experience for customers using the apps." 

 He said banks in the future may need to seek biometric data, such as face and voice, as part of authentication to enable financial transactions by customers. 5G tech could make it faster and smoother to transfer such data, which is substantial in size. 

 Mr Thakorn said 5G can help ensure financial security. For example, when suspicious transactions in bank accounts are detected, banks can draw from photos of people who made the transactions via mobile banking to compare with those who own the accounts. 

 5G will also help speed the transfer of necessary data for authentication, he said. 

 According to Mr Thakorn, banks cannot move towards 5G tech on their own, but rather will need to engage in an ecosystem with other industries, including telecoms, and work together to ensure the benefit for customers. 

 Thanida Suiwatana, chief business officer of Lazada Thailand, said 5G technologies will drive growth of e-commerce globally, which is expected to reach US$4.2 trillion in value this year, up 25%, as Thailand's e-commerce also grows 25% to 220 billion baht. 

 "Online sellers should prepare for future content that supports these technologies." — Thanida Su iwatana, Chief business officer, Lazada Thailand 

 Data is key to the success of e-commerce, which embraces artificial intelligence, big data and algorithms to enhance user experiences. 

 5G can provide high speeds to make these processes faster, especially for transactions and analytics. For example, chatbot customer service can interact with others more naturally on a faster, lower-latency network. 

 In addition, there are more hardware options for shopping, like smartwatches, smart homes and cars, enabling shoppers to alter their behaviour by using voice search. 

 Ms Thanida said the faster speeds will enable websites and mobile apps to deliver faster performance. 

 A recent study found that speeds just one second faster enable sales conversion to increase 25% and boost the size of online shopping carts by 60% in value. 

 5G also brings an immersive shopping experience with virtual and augmented reality to allow customers to "try on" clothes and lipstick. 

 In the future, shoppers will be able to touch and smell items through the use of "refinery technology" that provides a multisensory experience for the user. This could break barriers to shopping for some products such as shower heads with a particular feel and water pressure. 

 "Online sellers should prepare for future content that supports these technologies with more short video clips of 30 seconds to one minute," Ms Thanida said. "Lazada focused on shoptainment with live streaming, and this increased sales conversion by 60%." 

 The baht continued to weaken on Thursday after the resignations of Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak and four other key officials, reflecting foreign investors' concerns about the continuity of the government's economic policies. 

 The baht is now Asia's weakest currency against the US dollar on a year-to-date basis, down 5.5%, according to Reuters. 

 The local currency's value fell to 31.69 per US dollar as of 6.54pm on Thursday from 31.56 on Wednesday. The baht touched 31.76 at one point on Thursday. 

 The latest development is in stark contrast with last year's currency movements. The baht emerged as Asia's top-performing currency in 2019, eclipsing the 30-baht-per-dollar mark before the New Year, driven by the country's large current account surplus and ample foreign reserves. 

 For the first five months of the year, net foreign outflow from the Thai bond market stood at 150 billion baht. But the market booked net foreign capital inflows worth 30 billion baht in June and a further 10 billion baht in July. 

 This movement reflects the improved confidence of offshore investors, mainly due to the government managing to contain the coronavirus outbreak. 

 But Thailand's stock market has seen net foreign outflow worth 221.6 billion baht year-to-date. 

 Mr Somkid and the others tendered their resignations on Wednesday after mounting pressure from the Palang Pracharath Party (PPRP) amid a leadership reshuffle. 

 The resignations will clear the way for a cabinet shake-up demanded by the PPRP after supporters of Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwon pushed for him to become the new party leader last month, replacing Finance Minister Uttama Savanayana. 

 The reshuffle of the government's economic team has caused jitters among foreign investors, who are concerned about continuity in the government's policies -- especially with regard to the Eastern Economic Corridor, a special economic development zone of three provinces in eastern Thailand, said Tim Leelahaphan, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank Thai. 

 "The names of [potential candidates] of the new economic team do not matter much, as the government needs to set up a new cabinet rapidly and continue existing economic policies," Mr Tim said. "The government has contained the outbreak and implemented financial relief measures quite well for the past several months. Such direction needs to continue to maintain a positive economic recovery momentum." 

 The Bank of Thailand's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is poised to cut the policy interest rate by 25 basis points next month from the current all-time low of 0.50%, he said. 

 Monetary policy will be a key role supporting economic momentum during formation of the government's new economic team, which will take time for new cabinet ministers to be appointed, Mr Tim said. 

 The MPC stands ready to cut its policy rate in the event that a second-wave outbreak of coronavirus occurs on a large scale, said Don Nakornthab, senior director of the central bank's economic and policy department. 

 His comments echoed deputy governor Mathee Supapongse's recent remarks about how the central bank has not shut the door to further monetary policy easing. 

 The Bank of Thailand paused its benchmark rate at 0.50% in June to preserve policy space amid heightened economic headwinds after cutting the key rate three times this year by 25 basis points each. 

 If the second wave of the outbreak has a significant impact on global economic activity and affects Thailand's economic recovery momentum, the central bank is prepared for further monetary easing, Mr Don said. 

 Such a risk, however, could originate externally rather than internally, he said. 

 In Thailand, there is lesser opportunity for a second-wave outbreak to occur, he said, as the government has managed to contain domestic-based infections to a lower number compared with cases in other countries. 

 And while Thailand may not be able to evade a second wave, it could occur on a smaller scale, Mr Don said. 

 Under the central bank's scenario, the public health system can manage new cases of infection if the total is 20-30 cases a day. 

 "We should not stick with [continuous] zero domestic infection," Mr Don said. "Maintaining this record is quite difficult when we don't have any vaccine yet." 

 The government is pinning its hopes on two major projects to achieve its goal of becoming a digital hub in Asean. 

 A Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellite business is being funded through an amendment to the Space Affairs Act and the country is expanding its submarine cable capacity to make it more efficient for Thais to access digital infrastructure at an affordable price, says Digital Economy and Society (DES) Minister Buddhipongse Punnakanta. 

 He told the Bangkok Post's "5G: The Game Changer" forum on Thursday that LEO satellites operate between 500- 2,000 kilometres above the Earth's surface compared to the 36,000km height of so-called geostationary satellites, the traditional types of communications satellites. 

 "The advantage of the lower orbit is lower latency. It will benefit everyone with access to high-speed internet services via 5G technology, IoT [Internet of Things] devices, M2M [Machine to Machine] technology," he said. 

 Other advantages include drone technology and applications in areas that require high levels of accuracy, such as remote surgery, and LEO satellite systems are ideal to power these applications due to their low latency. 

 Mr Buddhi­pongse said the government had added some key details to the Space Affairs Act, concerning licensing and business structure, enhancing its definition of space affairs infrastructure as well as types of satellite business categories. 

 Currently, the LEO projects are run by two companies, Space Exploration Technologies Corp (SpaceX) and London-based satellite internet access provider OneWeb. Commercial services for LEOs are expected for 2021. 

 Mr Buddhipongse said the government was, through CAT Telecom, developing Thailand to be the digital hub of Asean by expanding the capacity of submarine cables and creating new ones via a consortium agreement signed in February. 

 The new submarine cable under the consortium is expected to be completed in the next two years. 

 Mr Buddhipongse said 5G tech was becoming a major blood vessel in the digital infrastructure for Thailand's recovery as well as reshaping the country to lead the Asean region through a collaboration of public and private sectors. 

 Meanwhile, major mobile operators will forge the country's social and economic development through 5G technology. 

 "During the Covid-19 pandemic, Thailand has efficiently handled the outbreak thanks to critical infrastructure of the 5G network installation following the 5G licence auction in February," he said. 

 Mr Buddhipongse said the "new normal" had affected both society and the economy, driven by tech-driven factors and proactive healthcare measures. 

 More importantly, the new situation was already pushing public healthcare to be a major factor for attracting overseas investment. 

 Mr Buddhipongse also said the government also planned to develop Thai personal health data through cloud-based data analytics. 

 These would make it easier for people to access healthcare services and related personal health data by using only a smart ID card. 

 The government realised the necessity for 5G tech innovation and Huawei Technology had helped by providing Covid-19 diagnosis services at Siriraj and Ramathibodi hospitals with 96% accuracy. "Reshaping the economy requires partnership from the public and private sectors," he said. 

 Thai Bankers' Association president Predee Daochai is tipped to be the next finance minister, according to Thai media. 

 The name was mentioned after the resignation of four ministers who make up the economic team of the cabinet led by Somkid Jatisripitak. 

 The 61-year-old banker has reportedly been advising the government on several issues, including the 1.9-trillion-baht borrowing decree for Covid-19 economic rehabilitation. 

 Mr Predee, who is also a co-president of Kasikornbank, graduated with law degrees from Thammasat University and a master's degree in law from the University of Illinois. 

 He joined Kasikornbank in 1982, working mainly in the legal and risk management field for the lender. 

 In October 2016, Mr Predee was appointed as a member of the National Legislative Assembly, an appointed lawmaking body created after the 2014 military coup, probably in his capacity as the president of the Thai Bankers’ Association. 

 In 2018, Mr Predee served as an adviser to the policy committee on the Eastern Economic Corridor, an ambitious connectivity and development project launched by the government to boost growth and investment in the East. 

 Thai media also reported the energy portfolio will likely go to Pailin Chuchottaworn, a former deputy transport minister in Gen Prayut’s previous cabinet and ex-CEO of oil-and-gas conglomerate PTT Plc. 

 Other advisers to the prime minister who may join the economic team could be Supattanapong Punmeechaow, a former CEO of PTTGC, a petrochemical arm of PTT; Karn Trakulhoon, a former Siam Cement president; and Boontuck Wangcharoen, a new Thai Airways International director and former TMB Bank president. 

 From the public sector, an official who works closely with the prime minister, Tossaporn Sirisamphan, secretary-general of the National Economic and Social Development Board, is also rumoured to join the new economic team. 

 In any case, it remains unclear whether the MPs of the core coalition party Palang Pracharath Party (PPRP) would welcome the news, given the quota system used in allocating cabinet seats based on the number of MPs. 

 After the 2019 election, Gen Prayut, who is not a member of the PPRP even though he was its prime ministerial nominee, was believed to be given a quota for his own men, who are non-MPs. His quota was given to Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwon, Interior Minister Gen Anupong Paochinda, Foreign Minister Don Pramudwinai, Mr Somkid and his four men.  

 Gen Prayut’s quota is part of the PPRP’s because the main coalition parties — Democrat and Bumjaithai — would not accept a cut on their ministerial quotas to accommodate Gen Prayut’s choices. 

 His quota has reportedly caused bitterness and rifts among several factions of PPRP’s MPs. 

 Gen Prawit’s increased role in the PPRP after he was elected the party’s leader is reportedly aimed at keeping potentially disgruntled MPs in line when a cabinet reshuffle comes over the next few weeks. 

 Finance Minister Uttama Savanayana and three other members of the so-called "Four Boys" group  announced their resignation from the cabinet on Thursday, effective immediately. 

 The four men  resigned from the Palang Pracharat Party last Thursday, not long after Mr Uttama was replaced as leader by Prawit Wongsuwon.  

 Mr Uttama, Energy Minister Sontirat Sontijirawong, Higher Education, Science and Innovations Minister Suvit Maesincee, and Kobsak Pootrakool, deputy secretary-general of the Prime Minister’s Office submitted their resignations, and later paid respect to sacred objects, at Government House.  

 Mr Uttama said their resignations were effective immediately. He thanked Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha for giving them his trust and an opportunity to serve the country. 

 The four comprised the so-called group of “Four Boys,” the cabinet quartet of economic technocrats overseen by Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak, 

 Mr Uttama said his team was willing to cooperate with the government in ways that were beneficial for the country and society. 

 He said Mr Somkid, who resigned from cabinet on Wednesday, wanted a rest, and so did his team  

 “We are leaving things on a very good note. We have to help the country get through this situation. In the future, we will be ready to do anything that is useful for the country. Mr Somkid’s resignation is due to his health. In fact, we also are taking this opportunity for a rest," Mr Uttama said. 

 Mr Sontirat said he had no political plans in mind, he just wanted to take a break. 

 His team was willing to continue working for the country, but they wanted out of their political roles for the time being. They did not to see anything in politics at this time posing an obstacle preventing the country moving ahead. 

 All four departing cabinet members insisted they were not under any pressure to depart. They left the cabinet with feelings of good will. 

 Their resignations were recieved by PM's secretary-general Disthat Hotrakit. The prime minister was in Si Sa Ket province. 

 Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha said he was sorry they resigned, but he had to accept it.  

 Gen Prayut said he learned of their resignations on Wednesday. He felt no grudge against them and still respected them.  

 “We have worked together for five years. What is important today is that we have achievements, such as laying the fundamentals of the digital economy and the Eastern Economic Corridor.  

 "They all gave me their cooperation. As there was a political change, they decided to leave. I can say that I'm sorry they are leaving,’’ the prime minister said.  

 Gen Prayut said the cabinet must now be reshuffled to prevent a vacuum, and it must be done as soon as possible. However he was not under pressure to do it.  

 The new cabinet line-up should be known no later than next month, he said. 

 The Civil Aviation Authority of Thailand has banned all flights with Covid-19 infected passengers from transiting through Thailand after China banned two flights from here. 

 CAAT director-general Chula Sukmanop spoke of the new measure on Thursday in response to the report that the Chinese government temporarily banned the services of Thai AirAsia X and Thai Lion Air for carrying some passengers infected with the coronavirus disease 2019 to China. 

 Under the new requirement, he said, airlines must sell tickets only to passengers who had Covid-19-free certification for flights transiting through Thailand. 

 The requirement applies even though passengers do not get off the planes in the country, Mr Chula said. 

 Most international flights at this time were those chartered to carry people back to their homeland. 

 Media reported that China banned both airlines for a week after some passengers on their flights on July 10 and 13 were found to be infected. The flights were XJ808 and SL117, from Kuala Lumpur and Jakarta via Bangkok's Don Mueang airport to Tianjin and Guangzhou, China, respectively.  

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman of the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration, said both chartered flights made stopovers in Thailand, probably for the rights to fly to China since direct routes from Kuala Lumpur and Jakarta are still banned, he said. 

 He confirmed that the passengers on both flights remained on their planes during the stopovers. About 5-6 passengers each on the two flights had Covid-19, he said. 

 There was no infection found among the 1,603 people tested for Covid-19 after being in places visited by an infected Egyptian soldier in Rayong and the infected young daughter of a diplomat in Bangkok. 

 In Rayong, 1,336 people underwent coronavirus tests on Tuesday. They had been at the hotel where the infected Egyptian stayed, or at one of the shopping malls he visited, Suwannachai  Wattanayingcharoenchai, chief of the Disease Control Department, said on Thursday. 

 All tested negative, Dr Suwannachai said.  

 In Bangkok, 267 people who thought they may be at risk were tested on Tuesday. None were infected. 

 Most lived at the One X condominium building in Sukhumvit area where the Sudanese attache's family stayed after arriving from Khartoum. The young daughter later tested positive for Covid-19  

 On Wednesday, samples were taken from another 1,252 people in Rayong. They were awaiting the results, he said.  

 Although lab tests came back negative, these people should continue to wear face masks, frequently wash their hands, observe social distancing and avoid going out for 14 days, Dr Suwannachai said. 

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman of the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration, said on Thursday the Sudanese girl's case involved six people who were at high risk of infection - five family members and and an embassy driver - and 18 others who were at low risk - 16 people living at the condominium building, and two foreign affairs officials. 

 In the Egyptian Covid-19 case in Rayong province, 12 people were at high risk of infection, including a taxi driver who talked with the infected soldier for five minutes. 

 People facing a low risk included 885 visitors to Passione Shopping Destination mall and 447 people who went to CentralPlaza Rayong.  

 Results were back from tests on a total of 1,603 people in Rayong and Bangkok and all were free of the disease, Dr Taweesilp confirmed. 

 The government on Thursday reported four new cases of Covid-19 disease among quarantined returnees from the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and the United States. 

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman of the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration, announced the latest figures on Thursday. 

 He also issued a warning. 

 "Regarding the critical global situation, we can no longer expect Thailand to be free of new Covid-19 cases. But we must limit the number," Dr Taweesilp said. 

 He said two of the new patients had returned from the UAE. One is a 33-year-old male worker and the other a 25-year-old masseuse. 

 They arrived on July 2 and were quarantined in Chon Buri province. They tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, but showed no symptoms. 

 The third new case is a male student, 27, who arrived from Egypt on July 8. He had been in close contact with a Covid-19 patient in Egypt and was quarantined in Chon Buri. He tested positive last Saturday, but showed no symptoms. 

 The fourth  is a woman aged 51 who returned from the US last Saturday and was quarantined in Bangkok. 

 Last Friday she had a fever, headache and loss of sense of smell. Earlier, she had been in close contact with a Covid-19 patient in the US. She tested positive on Wednesday, Dr Taweesilp said. 

 Of the total 3,236 cases in Thailand, 3,095 had recovered including three who were released on Wednesday. Eighty-three patients remained at hospitals. The death toll remained unchanged at 58. 

 Global Covid-19 cases rose by 234,169 over the past 24 hours to 13.69 million. The death toll increased by 5,600 to 586,821. The US had the most cases at 3.62 million, up by 71,670. 

 Many schools around the country will be closed as a precaution after two people in separate groups arrived in Thailand and were later found to be infected with Covid-19. 

 An Egyptian soldier returned a positive test after he and a military group visited Rayong and the daughter of a Sudanese diplomat fell sick with the virus while her family was in Bangkok observing their 14-day quarantine period. 

 Schools in many provinces will shut their doors to test pupils and sanitise their premises. 

 Sai Namthip School in Sukhumvit Soi 22, Bangkok on Wednesday confirmed it would hold only online classes from tomorrow after it was revealed the Sudanese girl's family had stayed in a condominium nearby. Wachirathamsatit School, in Sukhumvit Soi 101 said it would also close from tomorrow, citing similar reasons. 

 Rajinibon School in Samsen Road, Dusit district said it would shut today and tomorrow to sanitise the area with ozone generators. 

 In the South, Trat Trakankhun School said one boy had been asked to quarantine after revealing he had gone to Rayong about the same time as the infected Egyptian soldier. 

 Wisutthikasattree School in Samut Prakan shut on Wednesday and today after learning that two of its students had been in the Rayong shopping mall on the same day as the Egyptian group. 

 Sawang Boriboon Wittaya School in Chon Buri will close for five days to sanitise its premises because the parents of some students have also visited Rayong in recent days. 

 Uthai Wittayakhom School in Uthai Thani urgently halted classes for three days on Wednesday after finding the sibling of one student had stayed in the same hotel as the Egyptian delegation. 

 In Buri Ram, Kanlayaprasit School has also closed for seven days after a parent who previously taught in Rayong recently visited her alumni working at the hotel where the Egyptian soldiers stayed. 

 Earlier, the Rayong governor had ordered 127 schools in the province to be closed as a precaution. 

 Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha has called on residents in Rayong to resume their normal lives while Deputy Public Health Minister Sathit Pitutecha confirmed no local transmissions had turned up in the province after an infected Egyptian soldier stayed there without being quarantined. 

 The premier on Wednesday travelled to Rayong from Bangkok by helicopter to observe disease investigations and Covid-19 tests for the general public. 

 Gen Prayut and his entourage, including Deputy Prime Minister and Public Health Minister Anutin Charnvirakul visited D Varee Diva Central Rayong and Passione Shopping Destination mall -- the places where the infected soldier spent time while staying in Rayong. Later, the PM visited Star Market to offer moral support to local people. 

 The prime minister apologised to the people of Rayong and promised them this kind of event "would not happen again", referring to the infected soldier who was not in quarantine while staying in the province. 

 He called on people to remain confident in the public health system and doctors, asserting there would be no more VIPs going astray and that everyone must be tested for the virus. 

 Gen Prayut said he would take responsibility for the incident and urged everyone sides to treat the Rayong event as a lesson. The premier called on the media to avoid running news reports that stir up nationwide panic and suggested they focus on reporting the fact that there have been no new local transmissions in the country. 

 Meanwhile, business people and members of the general public in Rayong on Wednesday went to Government House to submit a petition to the prime minister, asking for the cancellation of 14-day quarantine exemptions for foreign visitors. 

 One representative, Thatchaya Chuangsanthat, said the people of Rayong always cooperated with the government's preventive measures against Covid-19 but now they faced discrimination. 

 They started to get back on track after the government relaxed lockdown measures and no community infection had been detected for over 100 days, she said. 

 "The people of Rayong have lived without much income for the past four to five months but we accepted the situation and complied with every measure," Ms Thatchaya said. 

 "But we could not accept that the government and the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration allowed foreigners in without state quarantining. 

 "We do not want an apology. We want the government to respond to what happened and treat everyone equally." 

 Ms Thatchaya added she planned to go to the Egyptian embassy in Bangkok to demand answers from them. 

 The Rayong Chamber of Commerce is also calling for an apology from the government and moves to save the tourism sector, after mass hotel cancellations were sparked by fears of catching coronavirus. 

 Provincial trade body chairman Noppadol Tangsongcharoen said on Wednesday local operators needed measures to aid their businesses, not just a government apology . 

 The Department of Special Investigation (DSI) is looking into four Chinese companies suspected of setting up 40 firms illegally using Thai nominees. 

 Police said the firms were traced to four Chinese companies operating businesses not meant to be operated by foreign nationals. 

 Pol Lt Col Korrawat Panprapakorn, director-general of DSI, on Wednesday told a press briefing that law enforcement agents initially found nine Chinese financiers who hired Thai citizens to register the four companies. 

 The four Chinese companies either traded rice, dealt in real estate, constructed buildings or operated accommodation, all of which are prohibited from being run by foreign nationals. 

 According to the DSI, the companies' assets, which have been frozen by the authorities, are estimated to be worth 3.6 billion baht. 

 However, the citizenship issue could be deeper. Pol Lt Col Korrawat said the DSI's investigation into the matter followed the review of a prior criminal case in Chiang Rai's Wiang Kaen district, where police caught a local official allegedly working to formalise Thai citizenship requests by foreign nationals. 

 One suspect, identified as Apao Sae-shen, was found to have forged his fingerprint records and other identity documents submitted to the district office for citizenship. 

 Apao was later granted citizenship, which was later used to register the four Chinese companies, according to law enforcement. 

 According to the DSI, since the citizenship was acquired using illegal documents, the status is invalid, and the companies registered by Apao are now deemed foreign-owned. 

 The DSI also suspects that the four companies have rich financial backers pulling strings. 

 Pol Capt Wisanu Chimtrakul, director of Security Crime Bureau, noted three of the four companies did not have addresses. Shares in the four companies were in Apao's name, he said. 

 The DSI said the four companies are suspected of being connected to the 40 smaller firms, adding the smaller companies have a combined capital of 5.3 billion baht. 

 Pol Capt Wisanu revealed the DSI was investigating a total of 246 people suspected of being linked to the 40 companies. 

 The DSI decided to investigate the case because the forging of identity documents constitute a security issue, Pol Lt Col Korrawat said. 

 Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak and three ministers working for him have resigned from the cabinet, paving the way for the reshuffle of the government's economic ministerial team. 

 The three ministers are Finance Minister Uttama Savanayana, Energy Minister Sontirat Sontijirawong and Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation Suvit Maesincee. 

 Kobsak Pootrakul, deputy secretary-general of the prime minister and also in Mr Somkid's team, also resigned. 

 All four have been part of the economic team led by Mr Somkid and recently resigned from the ruling Palang Pracharath Party (PPRP). 

 A source in the government said Mr Somkid informed Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha of his resignation on Wednesday, citing his health problems. "A press conference will be called on Thursday on the re­signations," Mr Uttama said on Wednesday. One of the most immediate issues is how soon a new team will replace them. 

 Mr Somkid on Wednesday went to Chumphon, where he is due to address village fund operators in the southern province this morning. 

 The resignations came after Preedee Daochai, chairman of the Thai Bankers' Association, reportedly played golf recently with Distat Hotrakitya, the PM's Secretary-General. 

 Mr Preedee was reportedly made an offer to join the government as the head of its new economic team, having previously rejected the offer. 

 Mr Somkid and his team were told by several political factions in the PPRP to resign as their colleagues wanted their ministerial seats to be shared. 

 Those factions recently installed Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwon as the new party leader in place of Mr Uttama. 

 It was also reported recently that Mr Somkid and his team planned to set up a new political party or group. 

 Reports of Mr Somkid's resignation sparked immediate concern in business circles over the shape of the government's next economic team against the backdrop of an economy badly damaged by the Covid-19 pandemic. 

 "The government cannot afford any delays in replacing the economic team as the private sector is worried about the future of economic stimulus projects initiated by the Somkid team," said Kalin Sarasin, chairman of the Thai Chamber of Commerce. 

 All these projects required sharp decisions and sophistication in implementation, said Mr Kalin -- qualities possessed by Mr Somkid, a pillar of the government's economic team. 

 Mr Kalin said all eyes were now on the prospective leader and members of the new team, meaning there was no room for the government to disappoint the public with names that were any less respected or trusted. 

 The new economic team must impress from the outset, to gain trust and confidence among not only the people and businesses in the country, but also foreign business people and investors alike, he said. 

 Kriangkrai Tiannukul, vice chairman of the Federation of Thai Industries (FTI) said the FTI agreed with the ministers' resignations because the path was now clear to resolve political conflicts and create a positive mood in the nation. 

 The FTI believed the manner of the ministers' departure would put an end to the negative image of Thailand being a country beset by political rifts and this would create renewed confidence among investors. 

 However, the FTI does have a concern the new economic team will not continue the economic policies put in place by those who have departed. 

 Mr Kriangkrai said Thailand needed the best people and economic policies that would drive the economy forward despite the pandemic. 

 "If the premier [hopes to] choose a new economic team that is also accepted by Thai people, it should be made up of economic experts," he said. 

 Thongyoo Kongkhan, adviser chairman of the Land Transport Federation of Thailand, also felt the ministers' resignations would be beneficial because Thailand needed new teams to push the economy forward. 

 Preeyanart Soontornwata, president of B.Grimm Power Plc, said she had no fears about the energy minister's resignation because plans for natural gas have been in place for several years. 

 Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak and four other Cabinet members tendered their resignations on Wednesday after mounting pressure from the Palang Pracharath Party (PPRP) since the party's leadership reshuffle. 

 Several sources said on Wednesday that Mr Somkid, Finance Minister Uttama Savanayana, Energy Minister Sontirat Sontijirawong, Higher Education, Science and Innovations Minister Suvit Maesincee, and deputy secretary-general of the Prime Minister’s Office Kobsak Pootrakul have submitted their resignation letters and will hold a press conference on Thursday.  

 The prime minister told his close aides that he was informed about their decision but has not seen the resignation letters. 

 The resignations will clear the way for a cabinet reshuffle demanded by PPRP after supporters of Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwon pushed for him to become the new party leader last month, replacing Mr Uttama. 

 Mr Uttama, Mr Sontirat, Mr Suvit and Mr Korbsak quit PPRP last Thursday to formally end ties with the party they had co-founded. Some party members demanded the resignation of Mr Somkid and his economic team after Gen Prawit took the helm. 

 The four were brought into the economic team by Mr Somkid in the military government formed after the 2014 coup. 

 Preedee Daochai, chairman of Thai Bankers’ Association, reportedly will be a candidate to take charge of economic policy in a new cabinet line-up. 

 There is only a slight chance of transmission of coronavirus disease in Rayong province, because only one of the Egyptian visitors who went shopping was infected and he always wore a mask and did not eat at a mall, according to the chief of the Disease Control Department. 

 Director-general Suwannachai Wattanayingcharoenchai confirmed on Wednesday that only one of the 31 visiting Egyptian soldiers tested positive for Covid-19. 

 The military delegation was in Rayong from July 8 to 11. Much of their time was spent travelling between the DVaree hotel and U-tapao airport, because they made two round trips from the airport during their stay, Dr Suwannachai said. 

 "They went out of their hotel and visited malls only on July 10, from late morning until the afternoon," he said. 

 Of the 31 Egyptians, 27 walked in small groups to nearby Passione Shopping Destination mall. The infected soldier walked in a group of six. Four others went to CentralPlaza Rayong in a taxi. Officials tested all of them for Covid-19 that day, and only one test came back positive, the director-general said. 

 "The group to CentralPlaza and the small groups, except the one with the infected person, had little or no opportunity to transmit the disease," he said. 

 The group of six including the infected man stayed at the mall from 11am to 3pm. Surveillance camera recordings showed all of them wore face masks from their hotel, passed health screening and used alcohol gel at the mall, Dr Suwannachai said. 

 "The infected person was on two floors of the mall. He did not shop or eat there. After leaving the mall, he returned to his hotel and entered his room. This means that the infected person did not contact many people," he said. 

 The 31 visitors did not leave their hotel at night, the disease control chief said. 

 Therefore, there were 11 at-risk people: four drivers plying between the hotel and the airport, and seven hotel employees. All of them were tested for Covid-19 and quarantined for 14 days. So far, it was known that three hotel staff tests came back negative, he said. 

 Dr Suwannachai said that 413 other people faced a low risk of infection because they were in the same mall at the same timeline. They were advised to observe disease control measures and limit their trips out of their homes. 

 On Tuesday, health officials collected samples from 1,333 people who were in the same places the visitors went to in Rayong, and results were known for 416 samples. None of them were positive, he said. 

 The Disease Control Department had closed the hotel and the mall for at least three days for disinfection, he said. 

 "Collected information shows the risk of disease transmission is slight and it is likely that local schools can reopen in seven days," Dr Suwannachai said. 

 HONG KONG: Millions of people faced new coronavirus restrictions on Wednesday as infections surge, but in one sign of hope, an American firm said it would soon start final-stage human trials for a possible vaccine. 

 Countries around the world re-imposed lockdowns and curbs to contain new outbreaks, as global cases surged past 13.2 million with more than 576,000 deaths. 

 Parts of the Asia-Pacific region, which had been somewhat successful in fighting the pandemic, provided fresh evidence of the deadly threat still posed by the virus. 

 Hong Kong's bars, gyms, and beauty salons closed again on Wednesday and a ban on gatherings with more than four people came into force as the city battled a fresh outbreak after months of impressive success against the virus. 

 Most of the city's residents voluntarily adopted face masks as a barrier against the virus when it was first detected in mainland China late last year, but the Hong Kong government now requires passengers on public transport to wear them or risk a US$650 fine. 

 There was alarm in Japan too, where Tokyo's governor warned that the capital was on its highest coronavirus alert level after a spike in infections. 

 That came after the Indian state of Bihar, with a population of around 125 million, announced a 15-day virus lockdown starting Thursday. India's IT hub Bangalore has already started a week-long lockdown. 

 Authorities in Australia, meanwhile, pleaded Wednesday with the public to heed social distancing guidelines, with roughly five million people in Melbourne in lockdown since last week in a bid to contain a new outbreak. 

 That request came just days after a group was fined Aus$26,000 (US$18,200) when their house party was exposed by an unusually large order of KFC. 

 "A particular concern for us is the ongoing parties and gatherings -- people playing poker, people holding parties," said Rick Nugent, acting assistant commissioner of Victoria state. 

 "Please stop." 

 - 'Encouraging' results - 

 Such pleas from experts and authorities have been ignored and even mocked in many of the world's most populous parts, including the United States -- the worst-hit nation in the world. 

 Tens of thousands of cases are now being reported daily in the US as states and local authorities scramble to roll back reopenings. The national 24-hour infection count was more than 63,000 on Tuesday, according to a Johns Hopkins University tracker. 

 But hopes rose when American biotech firm Moderna said it would start the final stage of human trials for its vaccine candidate on July 27, after promising results from earlier testing. 

 Moderna is considered to be in a leading position in the global race to find a vaccine, and while its study should run until October 2022, preliminary results should be available long before then. 

 Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease expert, described the early results as "encouraging". 

  

 

 Fauci had sounded the alarm last week, denouncing the hasty end to lockdowns and general carelessness of many Americans. 

 With no vaccine or effective treatment widely available, experts have advised lockdowns and social distancing measures in some form to prevent the deadly pandemic from gaining even more momentum. 

 Face masks will become compulsory in England's shops and supermarkets from next week, while South Africa reimposed a nationwide curfew to prevent a "coronavirus storm". 

 Authorities worldwide are under immense pressure to ease the economic pain caused by the widespread lockdowns, however, with the poorest hit the hardest. 

 In Cairo, Zeinab, a young mother, was struggling to survive by selling tissues when the coronavirus hit -- leaving her and thousands of other homeless people and street children even more vulnerable. 

 With fewer people in the streets, she said, "we have less work and less money". 

 The government on Wednesday reported five new cases of coronavirus disease, all quarantined returnees. 

 Dr Panprapa Yongtrakul, assistant spokeswoman of the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration, said the five new patients had returned from Singapore, the United Arab Emirates and the United States. 

 One of them was a woman aged 48 who arrived from the US on Saturday and was quarantined in Bangkok. On Monday she lost her sense of smell and had a sore throat and excessive phlegm. She tested positive on Monday. 

 Two others were male workers aged 43 and 49 who returned from Singapore on Monday. They were ill on  arrival and tested positive at a quarantine area of Suvarnabhumi airport. They were sent to a hospital in Samut Prakan province. 

 The two others were a man aged 27 and a woman aged 35, who arrived from the UAE on July 2 and were quarantined in Chon Buri province. They tested positive on Monday, 11 days after arrival, but remained asymptomatic. 

 Of the total 3,232 cases, 3,092 had recovered including one patient released on Tuesday. Eighty-two patients remained at hospitals. The death toll was stopped at 58. 

 Global Covid-19 cases rose by 221,698 to 13.46 million. The death toll increased by 5,696 to 581,221. The United States had the most cases at 3.54 million, up by 65,594, and the most deaths at 139,143, up by 896. 

 Brazil ranked second with 1.93 million cases, up by 43,245, and 74,262 deaths, up by 1,341, and India third with 937,487 cases, up by 29,842, and 24,315 deaths, up by 588. Thailand ranked 100th. 

 NAKHON RATCHASIMA: Soldiers returning home next week from a military exercise in Hawaii will be placed in state quarantine at a hotel in Bangkok, not in Nakhon Ratchasima as earlier planned, provincial governor Wichian Chantaranothai said on Wednesday. 

 Mr Wichian said he earlier approved a request from the 3rd Infantry Division to place 151 soldiers in quarantine at a hotel in Nakhon Ratchasima. 

 The soldiers are currently participating in a joint exercise with US forces, codenamed Lightning Forge 2020, at Schofield Barracks in Hawaii from July 1-21. They are due to return to Thailand on July 22. 

 The governor said the Sripattana Hotel on Suranaree road in Nakhon Ratchasima town was being readied for a 14-day "organisational quarantine", from July 22-Aug 6. 

 However, in an abrupt change, Maj Gen Sawarat Saengpol, commander of the 3rd Infantry Division of the 2nd Army, sent an urgent letter to him on Tuesday, informing the governor the planned quarantine  in Nakhon Ratchasima had been cancelled. 

 Lt Gen Tanya Kiatisan, the 2nd Army commander, said the 151 soldiers will instead undergo health screening and 14-day state quarantine at a hotel arranged by the army in Bangkok. 

 The change follows the furore surrounding the discovery an Egyptian soldier later confirmed to be infected with Covid-19 was among members of a visiting military delegation who ignored quarantine and visited several locations, including shopping malls, in Rayong province during a stopover in Thailand. 

 The incident has prompted the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration to review conditions allowing people with special exemptions to enter the country. 

 The second phase of the Sino-Thai high-speed railway (HSR) will help Khon Kaen realise its potential as a transport hub in the Northeast, according to provincial governor Somsak Jangtrukul. 

 "When the high-speed trains are ready to roll, Khon Kaen will be [the region's] public transportation hub," said the governor at the second public hearing for the 365-kilometre long rail route, which will link Nakhon Ratchasima with Nong Khai through Khon Kaen and Udon Thani. 

 The first hearing was held in Nakhon Ratchasima on Monday. Another forum is scheduled in Udon Thani today and in Nong Khai tomorrow. 

 About 500 people attended the second hearing on Tuesday, which was held at the Khon Kaen International Convention and Exhibition Centre. 

 Khon Kaen already has a large elevated train station, as well as a fully operational double-track railway which serves both passenger and cargo services. 

 Several new road projects are currently under construction and the airport is currently being expanded, the governor added. 

 "The expansion will increase Khon Kaen airport's annual passenger handling capacity to 5 million, with six new aprons currently being built in addition to the five already in operation," said Mr Somsak. 

 According to Mr Somsak, the second phase of the project will accelerate the development of a rail transport network across key provinces in the Northeast, which will in turn spur businesses located along the high-speed rail route. 

 Phase 2 of the project will see the construction of five stations along the line, namely Bua Yai Station in Nakhon Ratchasima, Ban Phai Station in Khon Kaen, Khon Kaen Station in the city centre, Udon Thani Station and Nong Khai Station. 

 The line will have the standard track gauge of 1.435 metres and a total of 241 crossings, said Mr Somsak. 

 Once completed, a trip from Bangkok to Nong Khai will only take about three hours and 15 minutes. 

 Design and feasibility studies for the second phase of the project, which began last year, are due to be completed next year, said Mr Somsak. 

 The Northeast's cultural identity will be incorporated into the design of the stations, he said. 

 The hearing in Khon Kaen came after the board of the State Railway of Thailand (SRT) last month approved the draft of the so-called "Contract 2.3" with China, paving the way to begin construction of the high-speed train project. 

 Thailand's economy is expected to take two years to fully recuperate, assuming there is widespread administration of a coronavirus vaccine, says the Bank of Thailand's chief. 

 "The intermittent outbreaks are also accounted for under the central bank's predictions," said governor Veerathai Santiprabhob. "New infections of 20-30 cases per day are manageable under the country's public health [system]." 

 The central bank believes that the economy will start to pick up this quarter after bottoming out in the second quarter, Mr Veerathai said. 

 Domestic consumption showed signs of recovery near the end of the second quarter, supported by the government's easing of the lockdown measures, he said. 

 Supply-side economic stimulus is an important factor boosting recovery impetus in the post-pandemic period. 

 Fiscal policy focused mainly on enhancing employment and financial assistance among businesses will help support growth potential after the crisis ends, Mr Veerathai said. 

 The government and regulatory bodies sought to strike a balance between fiscal and monetary policies to support recovery momentum and help affected parties through cash transfers and debt relief measures. 

 While there is a need to maintain an accommodative monetary policy, the policy interest rate is unlikely to be reduced to zero from an all-time low of 0.50%, Mr Veerathai said. 

 "The [latest] policy rate cut has been passed on to market rates efficiently after banks' loan rates declined by 67-103 basis points, which would relieve financial burdens for borrowers," he said. 

 The central bank has revised down Thailand's GDP for this year to an 8.1% contraction from a 5.3% decline projected previously. The economy is forecast to expand by 5% in 2021, up from 3% growth expected earlier. 

 Thailand has been cited as a success story in containing the outbreak, having gone more than 40 days without any local transmissions. Yet Bloomberg has reported that Thailand's economic outlook is the darkest in Asia. 

 An 8.1% GDP contraction is the worst official forecast for any of the main economies across Asia and would be the country's biggest GDP decline ever, surpassing even the plunge during the Asian financial crisis over two decades ago, according to Bloomberg. 

 Economic restructuring is needed, especially for labour market development in the post-pandemic period, Mr Veerathai said. 

 The central bank's Monetary Policy Committee has voiced its concerns over higher unemployment triggered by the pandemic. The unemployed workforce is expected to grow, with the main cluster comprising new graduates, ageing labourers and unskilled workers. 

 The process of reskilling and upskilling workers is necessary to prepare for the new working environment in the post-pandemic period, Mr Veerathai said. 

 Manpower will also be replaced by automation against the backdrop of an excess in manufacturing capacity. 

 With this scenario, Thailand needs economic restructuring, particularly in terms of technology adoption in the labour market, he said. 

 Employment will support domestic consumption and economic recovery after the outbreak comes to an end. 

 Although the central bank will further lend support to debt relief measures to aid both individual and commercial borrowers to overcome the crisis, it will not extend the suspension of principal and interest payments for SME loans, a scheme that expires in October, Mr Veerathai said. 

 Villagers and businesses in Rayong are enraged by the government's failure to warn them about the movements of a coronavirus-infected soldier from Egypt who broke self-quarantine rules to go to a mall during a stopover in Thailand. 

 "We have been cooperating with the government's measures on Covid-19 all along. All we need from them is a timely warning about Covid-19 risks. Is that too much to ask?" said Nalinee Paipimai, a 29-year-old woman on her way to take a Covid-19 swab test on Tuesday. 

 Ms Nalinee was accompanied by her 11-year-old son. They were among more than 400 people who visited the Passione Shopping Destination on Saturday, the same day that a group of Egyptians was in the mall, one of whom later tested positive for the disease. 

 Like many other unlucky people who went to the mall that day, Ms Nalinee now needs to go into a 14-day self-quarantine and that means she won't be able to earn the overtime money she had expected. 

 Her son no longer has to go to school as 127 schools across the province were on Tuesday ordered to close to contain the risk of the infection spreading. 

 The Ministry of Public Health on Tuesday sent three Biosafety Mobile Units to provide Covid-19 nasal swab tests. These mobile units will be parked for 14 days directly in front of the Passione Shopping Destination, a shopping mall in the centre of Rayong province to allow local people to get tested. 

 Ms Nalinee was among 394 people summoned by the Ministry of Public Health to be immediately tested on Tuesday because she had been using Thai Chana, a location tracking app developed by the government to monitor the spread of the virus. 

 On Tuesday, hundreds of people queued up for nasal swab tests. Most of them looked more angry than fearful of catching the disease. Among the angry locals was Jeerapong Wongsrikeaw, a 42-year-old factory worker who went to get tested with his mother and daughter. 

 "The government has been hiding information from us. This case proves that our government might not be able to handle Covid-19," he told the Bangkok Post. 

 Mr Jeerapong said local people feared the Egyptian soldiers might have roamed around freely at night. "We need the government to reveal their itineraries," he said. "The more we know the better we can protect ourselves." 

 Rayong province has been damaged by the report of an infected Egyptian who broke quarantine instructions to stay in his hotel and sneaked out to visit the mall last week. 

 All 127 schools in the province were ordered to close on Monday and staff at the D Varee Diva Central Hotel, where the team of 31 officials stayed, as well as those who visited the shopping mall have all been ordered to go into a 14-day quarantine. 

 The ramifications of the incident were immediate as hotels found tourists cancelling trips planned for the upcoming long weekends. People retreated into lockdown mode. 

 A vendor at the the Passione Shopping Destination told the Bangkok Post that the latest Covid-19 case had come at the worst possible time. 

 "The situation was just starting to get better. People had started spending again and tourists were coming back. But now, the shopping mall is closed again," said the woman, who asked not to be named. 

 Deputy Public Health Minister Sathit Pitutecha on Tuesday led a team of officials on a fact-finding mission to the province. 

 Initial inquiries showed 27 out of the 31 Egyptian officials had visited the mall, one of them being the soldier who later tested positive for Covid-19. 

 The Public Health Ministry found four other officials also went to the Central department store while the ministry said 1,000 people were in the mall at the same time. Meanwhile, taxi drivers and staff at all the places visited by the Egyptian delegation have been tested and ordered into 14-day quarantine. 

 The ministry stresses these officials did not go out at night and spent most of their time in their rooms on the second floor of the D Varee Diva Central Rayong Hotel,where they stayed. Inquiries also indicate the infected soldier wore a face mask while in the hotel and did not speak with anyone but his friends. 

 These officials did not agree to being tested, however, and officials had to ask the Egyptian embassy to cooperate to get the job done. 

 Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha on Tuesday urged Chinese investors to return to the kingdom now the coronavirus situation in both countries has largely subsided, saying the Thai government will fully support them, according to officials. 

 The government spokesperson team said the call was made during a phone conversation with President Xi Jinping on Tuesday. The phone call marked 45 years since the establishment of Thai-Chinese diplomatic relations. 

 Gen Prayut also asked China to consider importing more farm products from Thailand, a request the Chinese president reportedly promised to implement through existing trade cooperation mechanisms. 

 Both sides agreed to increase cooperation in all areas, including the digital economy, information technology and innovation sectors, the team said. 

 China has pledged to scale up its support of the government's Thailand 4.0 policy and the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) project. 

 Gen Prayut also promised Mr Xi that Thailand will resume projects put on hold due to the coronavirus pandemic as soon as the global disease situation improves. 

 Thailand is still interested in learning from China's experience, including how it is tackling poverty, Gen Prayut reportedly said. 

 During the call with Mr Xi, Gen Prayut also shared Thailand's experience in handling the outbreak with the Chinese leader and praised him for managing the outbreak in China. 

 The Bangkok Observation Tower Foundation, formed by major private business groups, has notified the Treasury Department of its request to cancel the lease contract to develop the much-touted Chao Phraya riverside observation tower. 

 The decision stems from a drastic drop in foreign tourist arrivals during the coronavirus crisis, said Yuttana Yimgarund, director-general of the Treasury department. 

 The tower project is owned and operated by the Bangkok Observation Tower Foundation, which was jointly formed by groups including Magnolia Quality Development Corporation, the property development arm of Charoen Pokphand Group; and Siam Piwat, the operator of Siam Center and Siam Discovery. 

 Magnolia and Siam Piwat are the joint developers of Iconsiam, a mixed-use project by the banks of the Chao Phraya River that opened in late 2018. 

 The planned tower was initially intended to be situated next to Iconsiam and opposite the Mandarin Oriental hotel. 

 Mr Yuttana said the Treasury Department has asked the private business groups to re-evaluate their decision, arguing that the battered tourism industry is likely to see a recovery soon. 

 The business groups earlier paid a leasing commission fee of 200 million baht to the Treasury Department. The department has the right to confiscate the fee if the development is cancelled. 

 The land where the tower is supposed to be situated is landlocked and inaccessible to cars. It has been left vacant for several years. 

 The project has been marred by controversies. In 2017, the cabinet approved leasing four rai to build the 459-metre tower. But the non-bidding nature of the project, whose 30-year lease came with a 70-million-baht price tag, left a bad taste in critics' mouths. 

 Patchara Anuntasilpa, the Treasury Department director-general at the time, cited a study by an "independent analyst" at Thammasat University to justify the project. 

 He said the study had found that the return on investment for the 4.62-billion-baht mixed-use observation tower, boasting both a panoramic view of the capital and an exhibition honouring the monarchy, would result in a 600-million-baht loss from planned ticket prices over the leasehold period. 

 The economic return of the project during that time could reach 46.8 billion baht. 

 The new attraction was expected to draw 1.1-1.4 million foreign tourists per year, potentially enticing visitors to spend an extra day in Bangkok, according to Mr Patchara. 

 According to the tower's management plan, foreigners would be charged an entry fee of 700 baht and Thais would be charged 350 baht. 

 Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha has ordered authorities to review privileges given to foreign diplomats and family members, and military delegations after an Egyptian soldier and the daughter of a Sudanese attache who tested positive were exempted from quarantine. 

 He ordered the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA) to review the easing of Covid-19 restrictions to plug loopholes in disease control measures. 

 Besides diplomats and their families, flights from foreign countries, including military aircraft, will have to follow these measures, Gen Prayut said. 

 The prime minister, who chairs the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA), on Tuesday apologised to the public for an incident in which an Egyptian soldier confirmed to be infected with Covid-19 was found to have visited  shopping malls in Rayong province. 

 As a result, 1,889 local people who went to the same malls as the Egyptian who tested positive now face home quarantine. 

 "This incident should not have happened. It's a lack of discipline, showing disregard for the rules and the common good," Gen Prayut said. 

 Gen Prayut said the visitors who left the quarantine facility breached regulations. He has asked the Foreign Ministry to discuss the matter with the Egyptian embassy in Thailand. 

 "It was a lack of responsibility and failure to keep a promise. But they [the Egyptian delegation] still ventured outside. I've told the Foreign Affairs Ministry to discuss the matter with the [Egyptian] ambassador to make sure this will not happen again," Gen Prayut said. 

 "All flights will not be allowed into Thailand temporarily until the problems are fixed. The CCSA has been told to review the easing of the measures. This problem has affected public confidence and safety. The government will do its best. Give the CCSA some time to fix the problem," Gen Prayut said. 

 However, there was no need to put the country back under a lockdown, though proper measures will be devised to respond to the current situation, the prime minister said. 

 Gen Prayut also expressed concern that many Thais and business operators are lowering their guard, adding that he has ordered officials to ensure that premises, particularly nightlife venues, strictly follow health measures. 

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman of the CCSA, on Tuesday that in future arriving foreign diplomatic staff and their families would have to stay for 14 days at "alternative state quarantine" facilities that the government would arrange. It would be dangerous for them to stay at embassies, he said. 

 Privileged visitors are people the prime minister or an emergency state supervisor have invited to the country. Business reps under special arrangements plan on only short stays. Both categories have been allowed in since July 1. 

 The Sudanese attache's family had been staying in Bangkok, he said, on the 19th floor of the One X condominium building, which has 329 rooms -- 200 of them occupied. About 70% of the residents were foreigners, Dr Taweesilp said. 

 Seven people were deemed at high risk of infection -- the Sudanese girl's parents and younger sister, a limousine chauffeur, two airport van drivers and a Sudanese embassy official. 

 Fifteen other people who used the same elevator the family used were deemed at low risk of infection, he said. The family and drivers would be tested today. 

 Bangkok governor Aswin Kwanmuang said on Tuesday that all foreign visitors must inform authorities of their residences and travel schedules. Violators will face legal punishment under the Communicable Disease Act, he said. 

 The CCSA on Tuesday reported seven new imported cases of the novel coronavirus, all Thai nationals who recently returned from abroad -- six from Egypt and one from the US. The death toll remained unchanged at 58. 

 People wait for Covid-19 tests at Passione Shopping Destination mall in Rayong on Tuesday. (Photo: Wichan Charoenkiatpakul) 

 Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha has apologised to the people for lax Covid-91 measures which failed to effectively put dozens of foreign visitors in quarantine. 

 Gen Prayut made the remark after some of the 31 Egyptian soldiers in Rayong province had gone shopping downtown and one of them was a confirmed case. 

 The prime minister said the incident should not have happened. "It shows no respect of the rules and a lack of discipline," he said. 

 As the director of the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration, he said he would take the responsibility. More importantly, he wanted to find ways to plug these loopholes.  

 Gen Prayut said he had sent a team of officials to gather in-depth information, inspect areas where the infected soldier had been, check those who were there at the same time, as well as registration desks where visitors checked in and out at malls via the Thai Chana app. 

 Those who were in contact with him would be tested to ease public worries, said the prime minister. 

 He also asked the centre to review health measures for diplomats and their families. Flights from foreign countries, including military aircraft, will have to follow these measures, he said.  

 Gen Prayut said the visitors who left the quarantine facility breached the regulations. He had asked the Foreign Ministry to discuss the matter with the Egyptian embassy in Thailand to prevent a recurrence. 

 He also banned all international flights coming to the country until the problem was solved. 

 Meanwhile, resort operators, restaurants and ferry service providers in Rayong say they have been dealt a second blow, according to Sarinthip Thapmongkolsap, chairwoman of the Samet Tourism Association. 

 “All room bookings on Koh Samet have been cancelled. All tourists who were already there also left,” she said. 

 She urged the government to help tourism operators there. “After reopening businesses for less than two weeks, they are now back to square one,” she said. 

 She added she would like to see strict measures applied to all foreigners and not just Thais. 

 The Egyptian case in Rayong and the Sudanese case in Bangkok also triggered a 14-day quarantine requirement in some provinces such as Lampang for all visitors who were in Rayong and Bangkok during the time the foreigners were not in quarantine. 

 All 127 schools in Rayong were also temporarily closed. A few schools in Bangkok near the condominium where the Sudanese family stayed also shuttered and shifted to the online learning mode. 

 The government has temporarily banned the entry of foreign diplomats and special business representatives after the young daughter of the Sudanese attache was found to be infected with the coronavirus after the family arrived from Khartoum. 

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman of the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration, on Tuesday announced the suspension of arrivals by privileged foreigners and business reps under special arrangements, and foreign diplomats and their families. 

 He said it would remain in force while the CCSA plugged loopholes in its disease control measures. 

 Privileged visitors are people the prime minister or an emergency state supervisor invited to the country. Business reps under special arrangements plan on only short stays. Both categories have been allowed in since July 1.  

 Dr Taweesilp said that in future arriving foreign diplomatic staff and their families would have to stay for 14 days at "alternative state quarantine" facilities that the government would arrange. It would be dangerous for them to stay at embassies, he said. 

 The CCSA decision was a response to the case of the 9-year-old daughter of the Sudanese attache in Bangkok, he said. 

 The girl's mother took their family of five for health checks in Sudan on July 7, and they were given clearance to travel. 

 They left Sudan that day and arrived in Thailand at 5.40am on July 10. They reached their residence at One X condominium in Sukhumvit area at 9.25am. The same flight also carried 245 Thai returnees.  

 Upon arrival, the family was asymptomatic but samples were taken for Covid-19 tests. It was known later that morning that the girl was infected. 

 Her father took her to a hospital in Bangkok, where a second test confirmed the first result. 

 On July 11 the girl was diagnosed with pneumonia and was referred to Queen Sirikit National Institute of Child Health in Bangkok on Juy12. The same day, her family moved into the Sudanese embassy on Soi Suan Phlu. 

 The family had been staying on the 19th floor of the One X condominium building, which has 329 rooms of which 200 were occupied. 

 About 70% of the residents were foreigners and about 50% of them wore face masks while using elevators there, Dr Taweesilp said. 

 Seven people were deemed at high risk of infection - the girl's parents and younger sister, a limousine  chauffeur, two airport van drivers and a Sudanese embassy official. 

 Fifteen other people who used the same elevator the family used were deemed at low risk of infection, he said. The family and drivers would be tested on Wednesday. 

 The government said on Tuesday the Egyptian embassy dodged quarantine for its 31-strong military party visiting Rayong province, and 1,889 local people who went to the same malls as the Egyptian who tested positive for Covid-19 now face home quarantine. 

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, spokesman of the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration, put the blame on the Egyptian embassy in Thailand for arranging hotel accommodation for the Egyptian delegation instead of sending the visitors to a state quarantine facility. 

 "Regulations require the quarantine during their stay but the embassy contacted the hotel directly. Health and security teams learned later about the incident and did their best to cope," he said. 

 Dr Taweesilp referred to the 31 Egyptian military visitors who stopped over in the eastern province of Rayong on their way to China. One of them was later found infected with the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19). 

 The spokesman said the delegation arrived on the EGY1245 and EGY1216 military flights at U-Tapao airport in Rayong at 7pm on July 8. They reached DVaree Hotel in Muang district, Rayong, at 11pm the same day. 

 On July 9 they left U-Tapao airport at 5.30am for Chengdu City, China. They returned to the airport at 11.30pm on the same day. They arrived at DVaree Hotel at 2am on July 10. 

 At 11am on July 10, 27 of the 31 visitors walked to Laemtong mall and stayed there until 2.56pm. Four others caught taxis to Centralplaza Rayong department store and stayed there from 2pm to 6pm. 

 After learning about their non-cooperation, local disease investigators tried hard to convince the visitors to take Covid-19 tests. They finally cooperated when the embassy was contacted. The delegation left for Egypt at 11.30am on July 11. 

 "CCTV showed that three of the visitors wore face masks. The others had face masks but did not wear them. The infected person wore his face mask while in public," Dr Taweesilp said. He assured reporters that the visitors did not go out at night. 

 He said nine people are considered at high risk of having contracted Covid-19 from the infected Egyptian military officer: two van drivers at U-Tapao airport and seven employees at his hotel in Rayong. The seven were two two managers, one salesperson and four maids. 

 The spokesman said the Thaichana check-in/checkout application showed that 394 people visited Laemtong mall and 1,488 people were at Centralplaza Rayong when the Egyptians were there. Seven other people were also at Centralplaza Rayong but officials had yet to verify their phone numbers. 

 Dr Taweesilp asked the local people to do home quarantine for 14 days and seek Covid-19 tests from local health officials. 

 He said that CCSA also took responsibility for the incident and it would improve its operations. CCSA had expected the visitors to land at Suvarnabhumi airport, not U-Tapao.  He said such visitors were normally quarantined at Novotel Bangkok Suvarnabhumi Airport hotel. 

 Because of the visitors' behaviour, CCSA cancelled eight Egyptian air force flights scheduled to bring visitors on July 17-20 and 25-29, he said. 

 "We are truly sorry for the incident in Rayong, where about 1,000 people are now at risk and more than 10 schools must be closed," Dr Taweesilp said. 

 The government reported that seven new imported cases of the novel coronavirus on Tuesday, all Thai nationals who recently returned from abroad -- six from Egypt and one from the US. The death toll remained at 58. 

 Of the accumulated 3,227 confirmed cases in Thailand, 2,444 contracted the disease locally and 290 were detected in state quarantine facilities. One patient recovered over the past 24 hours, raising total recovery cases to 3,091. Seventy-eight patients remained at hospitals. The death toll remained unchanged at 58. 

 The six returnees from Egypt are male students aged 20-32. They arrived on July 8 and were quarantined in Chon Buri province. They tested positive for the disease on July 11. Four of them were in close contact with previously confirmed cases. 

 The other case is a 66-year-old maid who arrived from the US on July 9. She was quarantined in Bangkok and tested positive on July 12 while being asymptomatic. 

 Global Covid-19 cases rose by 199,818 over the past 24 hours to 13.23 million and the death toll went up by 3,954 to 575,525. The US had the most cases at 3.48 million, up by 65,488. 

 If the country does not let foreign tourists in by the end of the year, some 60% of hospitality enterprises are at risk of going out of business, according to the Tourism and Sports Ministry. 

 "People will be safe from the virus as borders remain closed, but wounds from the economic fallout might be deeper and the government will face more difficulty in helping workers who lost their jobs," said Phiphat Ratchakitprakarn, the tourism and sports minister. 

 The Tourism Authority of Thailand predicted international arrivals will nosedive by 80% to 8.2 million, generating only 396 billion baht this year. 

 He said the tourism industry will contribute only 6-7% of GDP this year, compared with 18% in 2019. 

 "If the travel bubble scheme can take shape during September until December, tourism is expected to generate 200 billion baht, which can support our tourism goal of 1.23 trillion earned this year," said Mr Phiphat. 

 Domestic tourism may generate 700 billion baht this year with the support of government stimulus packages scheduled to kick off tomorrow. 

 "In my opinion, we have to open some parts of the country to mitigate the impact from the virus and revive the economy," he said. 

 The ministry plans to introduce the first phase of designated areas for tourists to spend at least 14 days in a travel bubble on islands: Phuket, Koh Phi Phi, Koh Samui, Koh Phangan, Koh Tao and Koh Nang Yuan. Tourists going to those areas can travel freely between those islands. 

 He said Phuket has the potential to carry out 1,000 swab tests per day, but the Public Health Ministry can ask for more health personnel from other provinces to help with the lab tests. 

 If 200,000 foreign tourists spend 5,000 baht per person per day in Phuket during the last four months, it could generate at least 14 billion baht for the local economy, said Mr Phiphat. 

 The American Chamber of Commerce in Thailand has discussed with the Tourism and Sports Ministry its readiness to bring tourists to Thailand once the travel restrictions are lifted. 

 Mr Phiphat said eight provinces have confirmed with the ministry their readiness to reopen for international leisure tourists, including Bangkok, Chon Buri, Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai and Songkhla. 

 He said Koh Chang in Trat and Koh Samet in Rayong might be included in the next phase. 

 The ministry also plans to propose a travel scheme between Hat Yai and three states in Malaysia that have had no new local cases for more than 70 days: Penang, Perlis and Kedah. 

 "We received an inquiry from Penang state, asking why they're not included in the travel bubbles negotiation despite being safe from the virus," said Mr Phiphat. 

 Tourists travelling via the travel bubbles scheme must arrive by air, but those from low-risk states in Malaysia might be allowed to travel by land via Songkhla and Satun. 

 For domestic market stimulus, the ministry expects only half of the 18-billion-baht budget for the "Let's Travel" scheme will be used. There should be another phase of the measure from the remaining budget, he said, however, expats might not be included as Thais are the main focus. 

 Crystal methamphetamine has now begun to flood into Thailand after the Myanmar authorities recently cracked down on narcotics production and the Covid-19 pandemic caused smuggling delays, according to the country's drug tsar. 

 Secretary-General of the Office of the Narcotics Control Board (ONCB) Niyom Termsrisuk said drug traffickers have been smuggling large quantities of crystal methamphetamine hydrochloride recently to unload stock which had become stuck in the country earlier. 

 "As the government started to relax Covid-19 measures, drugs from the neighbouring country made a return after smuggling had been obstructed by national lockdowns as well as Myanmar's heavy crackdown on production," Mr Niyom said. 

 So far for the 2020 fiscal year, 11 tonnes of crystal meth have been seized by authorities in 17 separate operations. Authorities believe that most consignments were en route to third countries such as Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. 

 "Thailand's geography, with its borders adjacent to drug production sites in the Golden Triangle, and its status as a hub that connects land, air and maritime transport make it hard for the country to avoid being used as a route to smuggle crystal meth to other regions," said the secretary-general. 

 The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime has noted that Thailand and countries in the Mekong subregion are facing more severe narcotic problems, especially with crystal methamphetamine, due to the expansion of synthetic drug manufacture in the region. 

 According to the ONCB's operation centre, only 10.8 tonnes of the drug were seized in the whole of the 2019 fiscal year. 

 During the Covid-19 lockdown easing from May–July, the Thai authorities made eight arrests in relation to the smuggling of over 100kg of crystal methamphetamine, accounting for 4.3 tonnes of the year's total so far. 

 On July 11, Surat Thani police arrested three men for smuggling over one tonne of the drug hidden in cow dung. The defendants said they had brought the consignment from Samut Sakhon and were going to drop it in Satun province. The haul was expected to fetch 3.6 billion baht if sold abroad. 

 Over the past two weeks alone, officers made two consecutive arrests for drug trafficking in Surat Thani and Narathiwat and seized amounts of crystal methamphetamine weighing 2.44 tonnes in total. 

 The tourism sector in Rayong has expressed concerns that the case of an Egyptian soldier who tested positive for Covid-19 will further damage their businesses and are urging authorities to help restore public confidence. 

 Chayut Chaitrakulthong, chairman of the tourism business operators in the eastern province, said he feared the fresh case would drive tourists away just as local businesses were starting to recover after the easing of lockdown measures on July 1. 

 However, he said exactly how much people's confidence was affected depended on how the provincial authorities handled the issue which some observers say has exposed lax health screening. 

 Mr Chayut was speaking after the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA) reported the movements of an Egyptian soldier who stayed in Rayong and then tested positive for the coronavirus. 

 The soldier visited a number of places, including shopping centres, during his stay in the province and also took a one-day trip to China. He returned to Egypt on Saturday and a test result confirming the infection came back from the lab on Sunday. 

 Mr Chayut said tourism operators in the province had only recently launched a new advertising campaign and they were shocked by the news. 

 "We are bracing for the impact," he said. "Businesses had just started picking up and were seeing solid bookings. We don't expect the business to fully recover in the 'new normal' but we are hoping the province will resolve the situation before the next long weekend." 

 Mr Chayut said Rayong had had no local cases for almost two months and he doubted people were paying serious attention to the Thai Chana app, which is being promoted as part of the measures to prevent a fresh outbreak, despite the government's efforts. 

 Rayong governor Surasak Charoensirichote said on Monday the hotel in question had been ordered to shut. Its 12 hotel staff had been quarantined and would be tested for Covid-19. 

 He said health authorities were also checking all venues visited by the Egyptian soldier and others in his delegation during their stay in Rayong and necessary appropriate steps would be taken. 

 Chaisit Thepchatree, director of Rayong Hospital, admitted that the public was anxious about a new outbreak of the virus following the report about the Egyptian solider. 

 While it has not been confirmed which malls the Egyptian soldier visited, Rayong public health office late on Monday announced that a free, royally sponsored Covid-19 test would be available at Central Rayong and Passione Shopping Destination shopping centres from 11am to 3pm on Tuesday. 

 Last week, US army chief of staff Gen James McConville visited Thailand to strengthen the 65-year-old military alliance, culminating in the signing of the Strategic Vision Statement. Early this month, China held a five-day naval drill near the contested Paracel Islands. Then the US carried out military exercises in the waterway showing support for the free and open Indo-Pacific, as the South China Sea has been subject to overlapping claims by many countries, including China. 

 It is not by chance that the new US ambassador to Thailand, who just took up his post in March, chose a series of military-related paintings for an exhibition at his residence. 

 In an interview with the Bangkok Post, US Ambassador Michael George DeSombre said the US had carried out its military engagement in support of freedom. 

 "That is what we have done in the Spanish-American War, World War I and World War II. That is the role we see our military provides in promoting freedom around the world and ensuring other countries have the ability to be sovereign, safe and secure, which is the foundation of our Indo-Pacific strategy," he said. 

 The ambassador said the US is now focusing attention on the South China Sea to make sure that Beijing does not illegally extend its control over the waterway. 

 "That is an important area for Thailand because Thailand, although not a claimant in the South China Sea, depends upon the freedom of navigation for exports of about 80% of your GDP, so export and import flows through a naval situation that is not free and open would be problematic," he said. 

 He voiced support for Asean's position on the South China Sea in the 36th Asean Summit on June 26 and stressed that it comply with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (Unclos). 

 From the US to Thailand 

 Ambassador DeSombre is the first political appointee to the US ambassador's post in Thailand in almost 50 years. Formerly a lawyer in business negotiations, he told the Bangkok Post in March his focus in Thailand would be promoting the economic relationship. 

 However, he said military history has been his passion since an early age. Before he went to law school, he studied economics and pursued a master's degree in East Asia, which covered Chinese military history. 

 "I have never been in the military. Sometimes, I wish I had gone," he said. 

 He is a member of the Army and Navy Club in Washington DC. He reached out to them and asked if they would loan the US Embassy in Bangkok some art. An exhibition programme is now running at the century-old US Ambassador's residence on Witthayu Road in Bangkok until the end of this year. 

 "I gave them a list and they gave me almost everything I wanted except a painting of President Ulysses S Grant. I hoped to have that painting because he was the very first president to visit Thailand in 1879," he said. 

 However, Ambassador DeSombre said he could borrow the eponymous replica of the original portrait of George Washington, who went down in American history as the founding father of the US. 

 "Obviously, he was a great general who led to the victory of the revolution, but the most significant thing is that he gave it all up. … [However,] they called him back later to become the president [in 1789]. It is a good example of the transition of power, not just from one president to the next, but even from one military to civilian," he said. 

 Appreciate the history 

 Ambassador DeSombre said the painting titled Washington and His Generals, which recreated his farewell moment, has a very personal connection because it occurred at Fraunces Tavern in New York City. 

 "It is like the British way of saying Frank's Bar. It is an old eating club which is right across the street from where I worked. The first lunch I went for with a senior lawyer at my law firm was at Fraunces Tavern. It is still there. It is an old colonial building oozing history," he said. 

 Next to the portrait of the first US president is the oil canvas of Commodore Stephen Decatur, the first post-revolutionary war hero in the early 1800s. The ambassador said he is renowned for conquering the Barbary Pirates in the Mediterranean Sea. 

 However, he said the power of the US navy became evident in the Spanish-American War in 1898, as reflected in the painting titled the Battle of Santiago de Cuba, which was a victory for the US and led to the independence of Cuba from Spain. 

 Meanwhile, the diplomat said American air power later rose to prominence, especially the use of B-29 flying fortresses to attack the Japanese in Thailand in World War II. 

 "That was another important period in our US-Thai cooperation. The original work between the Office of Strategic Services that became the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the Free Thai Movement was cooperating to take action against the Japanese," he said. 

 Thai-US military alliance 

 When asked his view on the future role of the military, Ambassador DeSombre said nobody wants conflict, but we are in a period of great power competition. 

 "It requires us to be vigilant to ensure that potential enemies know we are strong and we will not back down. We are working closely with our allies -- Thailand and everybody else -- to ensure we are strong and able to work together," he added. 

 However, there are other aspects of cooperation. For example, the Armed Forces Research Institute of Medical Sciences, the joint US-Thai infectious disease centre, is conducting vaccine research and developing coronavirus testing given the current pandemic. 

 The painting titled '4th Marine Division Landing on Iwo Jima', right, shows a major 1945 battle in which US marines seized the island of Iwo Jima from the Japanese army. 

 The Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA) has been taking urgent measures after an Egyptian soldier confirmed to be infected with Covid-19 was found to have visited shopping malls in Rayong province. 

 Meanwhile, the family of a nine-year-old girl infected with Covid-19 is being investigated after its members were found to not be in embassy accommodation, having stayed in a condominium. 

 Deputy Public Health Minister Sathit Pitutecha will visit Rayong on Tuesay while a deputy director-general of the Department of Disease Control will visit a condominium in Bangkok. 

 The visitors from Egypt stayed in Rayong en route to a one-day trip to China, where they had military business, then returned to the province on their way home. 

 All were allowed to enter the country, says the CCSA, as they were defined as air crew under the conditions set by the Civil Aviation Authority of Thailand. They were not asked to quarantine because they were coming for less than 14 days but they were required to undergo virus tests. 

 The general manager of U-Tapao airport, Vice Adm Kitchpol Rienglekjamnong, said only one member of the group, a soldier, sneaked out to visit shopping centres. 

 Echoing many social media users who spread the hashtag #Covid19 (in Thai), the Drama-addict Facebook page, which has more than 2 million followers, urged authorities to reveal exactly which locations had been visited by the infected man. 

 The page said people had the right to know in order to protect themselves. The centre had at that stage only published the vaguest information, by identifying Rayong as the province visited. 

 Mr Sathit said later on Monday he would visit Rayong and check locations including Central department store, Laem Thong shopping mall and D Varee Diva Central Rayong Hotel. 

 Central on Monday announced it had checked and no Covid-19-infected patients visited the mall while the hotel said it had been informed by the Egyptian embassy that the group had passed Covid screening. 

 CCSA spokesman Taweesilp Visanuyothin said officials from Bangkok would join local staff in the province to check for coronavirus contagion at every place visited by members of the delegation, as well as everyone they came into contact with. 

 The health scare follows a positive result returned from the lab on Sunday after tests on a swab taken from the 43-year-old soldier. He was one of three new confirmed cases announced by the CCSA on Monday. The other two were Thais returning from working in Kuwait and Bahrain. 

 The soldier and 30 others, including crew of their aircraft, departed Egypt on July 6 and went to the United Arab Emirates. They then travelled to Pakistan the next day, Tuesday, and arrived at U-tapao airport in Rayong on Wednesday. 

 The UAE, Pakistan and Egypt are all hot spots for Covid-19 infections found in Thais returning home from overseas. 

 The information posted on the CCSA Facebook page said the group stayed at a hotel in the province. 

 The team left U-tapao for Chengdu, China, last Thursday and returned shortly before midnight the same day, staying at the same hotel. 

 Dr Taweesilp said health officials tested them on Friday and there were unconfirmed signs that the soldier might have caught the virus. 

 The group returned to Egypt on Saturday, the day before the lab confirmed the positive result. 

 The spokesman said the hotel where the soldier and other members of the delegation stayed was being cleaned. The group visited other places during their stay in the province, including a shopping centre, he said, but he would not name the locations. 

 "We will examine all the places they visited," said the CCSA spokesman. 

 Authorities would also improve the scanning at the airport in Rayong, which was not as strictly enforced as it was at Suvarnabhumi airport. "We will reconsider all practices," he said. 

 Officials from the Disease Control Department would be sent to conduct tests on everyone who visited the two premises, Mr Sathit said. 

 On Saturday, the CCSA also reported that a nine-year-old Thai girl who returned home from Sudan with her family had tested positive. 

 Dr Taweesilp said on Monday she had been hospitalised but the other four family members had not been quarantined because they were the family of a diplomat. They has reportedly self-isolated at a condominium in Bangkok, which the CCSA did not name. 

 The mother took everyone to get tested in Sudan last Tuesday before they left home, said Dr Taweesilp, and all tested negative. 

 Three days later, they were tested on arrival and the results were negative but more comprehensive tests showed the girl was infected. 

 Officials were continuing to investigate the case. 

 Health authorities are checking all venues visited by an Egyptian soldier and other members of his delegation during their stay in Rayong, after he tested positive for the coronavirus. 

 The visit has also revealed lax screening procedures at U-tapao airport in Rayong. 

 The visitors stayed here en route to a one-day trip to China, where they had unexplained military business, and again on the way back. 

 They were allowed to go outside the hotel where they were staying during their visit. The group did not need state quarantine because they were here less than 14 days, but they were required to undergo a virus test. 

 The places they went to included a shopping centre, which has not been identified. 

 Taweesilp Visanuyothin, the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration spokesman, said on Monday officials from Bangkok will join local staff in the eastern province in checking for coronavirus contagion at all places they went to, and people who were in close contact. 

 The health scare follows a positive result returned from the lab on Sunday after tests on a swab taken from the 43-year-old soldier. It showed he was infected with the Covid-19 virus. 

 He was one of the three new confirmed cases announced by the CCSA on Monday. The other two were Thais returning from working in Kuwait and Bahrain. 

 The soldier and 30 others, including crew of their aircraft, departed Egypt on July 6  and went to the United Arab Emirates. They went on to Pakistan the following day, Tuesday, and arrived at U-tapao airport in Rayong on Wednesday. 

 The UAE, Pakistan and Egypt are all hotspots for Covid-19 infections found in Thais returning home from overseas.  

 The information posted on the CCSA Facebook page said the group stayed at a hotel in the province. 

 The team left U-tapao for Chengdu, China, on Thursday. They returned shortly before midnight the same day, and went to stay at the same hotel. 

 Dr Taweesilp said health officials tested them on Friday, and there were unconfirmed signs that the soldier might have caught the virus. 

 The group returned to Egypt on Saturday. The test result confirming the infection came back from the lab on Sunday. 

 The spokesman said the hotel where he and other members of the delegation stayed was being cleaned . They visited other places during their stay in the province, including a shopping centre, he said. He would not name the places. 

 "We will examine all the places where they visited," the CCSA spokesman said. 

 Authorities would also improve the scanning process at the airport in Rayong, which was not as strictly enforced as it was at Suvarnabhumi airport, he said. "We will reconsider all practices," he said. 

 All were allowed to enter the country as they were defined as air crew under the conditions set by the Civil Aviation Authority of Thailand, according to the centre. 

 It remained unclear why they were allowed to go outside the hotel during their stay in Rayong. The CCSA did not go into details how many of the group were soldiers or civilians. 

 Thailand on Monday recorded three new confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus, including one foreigner, and no new fatalities, authorities said. 

 The new cases were two Thais and one Egyptian, according to the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA). One of the Thais arrived from Kuwait on June 29 and tested positive on Saturday while in state quarantine in Bangkok. Another arrived from Bahrain on Sunday and tested positive on arrival.  

 The Egyptian, a soldier, arrived in Thailand on Wednesday and tested positive on Friday in Rayong. 

 The new findings raised total confirmed cases to 3,220, with the death toll remaining at 58. 

 Screenshot from https://covid19.ddc.moph.go.th/en 

 https://covid19.ddc.moph.go.th/en 

 https://covid19.ddc.moph.go.th/en 

   

 CU-Cov19 -- a novel coronavirus vaccine being developed by a Thai research team in collaboration with the University of Pennsylvania -- is expected to enter mass production by the end of the third quarter next year, the research team said on Sunday. 

 Non-human primates which received a second dose of the vaccine displayed high levels of Covid-19 antibodies, which the research team called an encouraging sign in light of the upcoming human trials scheduled in Octoaber, the team said. 

 The research team -- led by Kiat Ruxrungtham of the Chula Vaccine Research Centre -- made the remark at a press conference charting progress in their work. The team has been testing Cu-Cov19, an mRNA vaccine, on 13 macaques at Chulalongkorn University's National Primate Research Centre in Saraburi. 

 The result has led to high hopes that the country can successfully produce its own vaccine against Covid-19 by the third quarter of next year. BioNet Asia, the centre's partner, is expected to produce "millions" of doses by the end of next year, said Dr Kiat. 

 Chutitorn Ketloy, a research team member, said macaques which were vaccinated between May and June seem to have developed immunity against Covid-19, with their antibody levels reaching up to 5,120 after receiving the second dose. 

 Mice injected with the vaccine registered antibody levels of up to 40,960, suggesting that the vaccine's effect decreases as the size of the test subject increases, the researcher added. 

 "This is a significant result, as we now understand that the antibody response will drop by 5-10 times when the vaccine is administered on humans," said Dr Kiat. 

 "But even with such a decrease, immunity to the disease can be achieved as long as the antibody response measures above 1,000, which is the level we hope to see in the [human] trial." 

 According to him, the first phase of human trials is going to begin in October, followed by the second phase from December to March 2021. As the third phase of human trials requires over 10,000 participants for the results to be valid, Thailand -- due to its relatively low number of cases -- will seek the cooperation of Brazil, India and Indonesia to carry out the tests. 

 "However, the third phase can be skipped altogether if the United States' Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) approves another mRNA vaccine for Covid-19 before ours," said Dr Kiat. 

 He said the US FDA could exercise its Emergency Use Authorisation rule to produce vaccines in Thailand under the regulation and supervision of Thailand's FDA. 

 If the US FDA approves a vaccine before Thailand, Thai plants can mass-produce the vaccines by the third quarter of next year, he said. 

 To effectively control an outbreak, at least half of an entire country's population will need to be vaccinated, which means Thailand will need at least 70 million doses. 

 If local plants are not able to churn out enough vaccines to cover the demand, the government will seek Indonesia's cooperation to help co-produce the vaccine, said Dr Kiat. 

 It is estimated that around two billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine will be produced by the end of next year -- which is unlikely to be enough to meet the global demand. 

 "In 2009, Thailand failed to secure swine flu vaccine in time due to the drug's limited production run, even though it was paid for in advance. The vaccine arrived when the crisis was already over," Dr Kiat said. 

 We have learned a tough lesson over the last few months — uncertainty and change will always be a constant part of our lives and businesses. The degree of impact can be small, affecting us in little ways, or it can be drastic, shifting our entire perspective on how we do things. Sometimes change gives us greater opportunities, but at other times it creates a negative impact. 

 In the end, though, it’s not about how change affects us and by how much, but about how we can get back up and how fast we can adapt whenever we face new challenges. It takes resilience to brave adversity and overcome it, but the most important element of resilience is our mindset.  

 Dr C Terry Warner, the founder of the Arbinger Institute, offers an interesting concept of mindset. Each individual, he says, has an inward and an outward mindset. Being inward means our focus is on ourselves and our own goals, with no regard to other people’s goals or the impact we have on others. Being outward, on the other hand, means our focus is on working together toward our own goals and those of others collectively.  

 The most important thing to understand about the concept of the inward and outward mindset is that there’s nothing wrong in being more of one than the other. The fact is that we have both mindsets and how we deploy each one shifts depending on the situation and how we feel.  

 In any case, I want to focus today on the outward mindset, by sharing four keys to building resilience in ourselves as well as in the people in our teams, so that we can survive change and sustain business growth. 

 The first key is self-awareness and perspective. Change happens and it can happen unexpectedly. People — and even the organisation as a whole — react differently to change and this comes from our own perspective and experiences. Being aware of how we feel and react in a situation is important in building up resilience. 

 By becoming self-aware, we understand our own emotional state but also are able to shift our perspective toward what others are seeing and feeling. This is especially important for the overall organisation as it is driven by people, and greater awareness allows us to view things in a more objective way. 

 The second key is collaboration toward shared goals. In anything we do, we cannot do it all on our own. When we face new challenges as an individual or as an organisation, we don’t face it alone. In fact, if we want to sustain the business, we shouldn’t be doing it alone. Resilience isn’t about facing pain and struggles alone. If we want to get back up faster, we need to depend on one another for support. 

 The reality is that collaboration allows each individual to collectively work together toward shared goals more effectively. When your people feel that they have a strong support system, their motivation will stay high and they’ll be able to recover from adversity faster. 

 The third key is accountability and responsibility. Resilience isn’t only about being able to overcome challenges; it is also about being accountable and responsible for your decisions and actions. This is because resilience is also about learning from both successes and failures. Without accountability, we will end up avoiding or running away from all the challenges we face. 

 While your people are accountable for their own decisions and actions, business leaders must also stay accountable for the organisation. There is nothing more empowering for people in the organisation than when their leaders act as role models for change, especially at a time of uncertainty. 

 The final key is influence and impact. Understanding how our actions influence and impact others opens us to seeking the necessary feedback on our tasks and on ways to improve going forward. It helps with our resilience in a way that strengthens our skills to face and overcome tougher situations. 

 Mindset is the basis of who we are and the opportunities we create for ourselves. But most importantly, mindset is the basis of our resilience in the face of change and adversity. Changes in our world are constant but we cannot stay in one place if we want to survive and succeed. The good news is, mindset is something we can all learn to develop no matter what our capabilities may be. The possibility lies in whether or not we choose to shift or not. 

 Arinya Talerngsri is Chief Capability Officer and Managing Director at SEAC - Southeast Asia’s Lifelong Learning Center. She can be reached by email at arinya_t@seasiacenter.com or https://www.linkedin.com/in/arinya-talerngsri-53b81aa. Explore and experience our lifelong learning ecosystem today at https://www.yournextu.com 

 Residents of Bangkok's Nong Chok district have cried foul over construction of a flood embankment along Klong Saen Saep which they said has caused land to subside. 

 The concrete embankment, which originates from Klong 13, runs the length of 10 kilometres along the canal banks. It serves to keep out floodwater which is channelled to the Bang Pakong River. The project is 70% complete. 

 Sunan Muhammed Yang, a religious teacher at the Nurul Yakeen mosque, said the construction was causing land subsidence that threatens to deposit a childcare centre at the mosque into Klong Saen Saep. 

 The childcare building showed deep cracks and the kitchen and toilet were in a state of disrepair. "We're concerned about children's safety at this point," he said. 

 Bangkok governor Aswin Kwanmuang inspected the project site in January and ordered the contractor to fix the design and prevent subsidence. However, nothing has been done. 

 Mr Sunan said local residents did not want the embankment in the first place. 

 "It's out of place with our way of life," Mr Sunan said. "People here still catch fish in the canal," he said. The residents face difficulty climbing over the concrete wall to get to the water. 

 "But we let the project go ahead for the sake of urban development. Now, we are suffering from it." 

 Waree Kabilakam, 75, said her canal-side house has subsided and the construction work blew dust into her home. 

 Sukanda Kositpanichakul, a vendor in the 100-Year Market, said the project took away part of the land at the market which was rich in history and stands as cultural representation of Nong Chok district. 

 Siripong Rasmee, the Palang Pracharath Party MP for the district, said large amounts of soil were dug out with no structure built to stem the subsidence. 

 If City Hall failed to deal with the problem, he would raise a motion to press for answers from the Interior Ministry or the State Audit Office. 

 Game casters and e-sports players have become the careers young people dream of, and they follow up by training hard to achieve their goal. But the recent push for a new draft law governing the sector with an aim to protect children from violent games has caused panic throughout the industry. 

 A renowned gamer, Chaniknan "Pi Wan" Thippairot, sparked outrage earlier this month as he told his gamer peers that the legislation would ban first-person shooter (FPS) game competition and prohibit gamers from streaming their games more than two hours a day out of health concerns. 

 His comment prompted netizens and gamers to lambaste the legislation, which they think would deprive them what some see as a fundamental right to play games. 

 One of the legislators later told the Bangkok Post that Mr Chaniknan's remarks were untrue, as no such details are contained in the draft. But the lawmaker then noted that children must have appropriate time limits on playing violent games and game ratings must also be ushered in. 

 The government is challenged with striking a balance between child protection from violent games and the rise of the e-sports business. 

 Thailand's game market grew 16.6% year-on-year to 23.3 billion baht in 2019 with 27.8 million active gamers, according to mobile operator Advanced Info Service (AIS). The industry's revenue is expected to grow to 27 billion baht this year. 

 CONCERNS FOR CHILDREN 

 A subcommittee of the National Commission on the Promotion of Child and Youth Development started looking into e-sports activities after the Thailand e-Sports Federation (TESF) sought to be listed under the Sports Authority of Thailand (SAT) in 2017. 

 The TESF was recognised by the SAT in July that year. This was also approved by the Tourism and Sports Ministry, conferring the broad perception that the government accepted e-sports as a sport in Thailand. 

 Teerarat Pantawee, a member of the subcommittee and chairwoman of the Youth Radio and Media Association, said the move drew flak from many quarters, including some other state agencies, as there has been no broad discussion or any consensus on the issue. Concerns for children's well-being are also under focus. 

 In many countries, e-sports are not recognised as a sport, including the United States, she said. 

 "Many children tell their parents they want to become a professional e-sports player and need training, which has caused arguments in families," Ms Teerarat said. 

 The subcommittee then held a series of events to provide information for parents on how to take care of children involved in gaming. This included explanations to the public that becoming a professional e-sports player may not be an easy road for kids. 

 Research by the Department of Mental Health, Ms Teerarat said, showed that of 1 million children playing games, 100,000-200,000 of them are at risk of becoming game addicts. 

 "Only 10 out of 1 million can become professional e-sports players," she said. 

 Ms Teerarat and allies then joined forces to draw up a draft resolution aimed at protecting young gamers to be pushed through by the National Health Assembly, which gathers the public, state and academic sectors. The assembly is under the National Health Commission Office (NHCO). 

 The draft was later approved by the assembly and put forward to the NHCO. 

 The NHCO tabled the resolution before the cabinet, which later approved and sent the draft to state agencies as guidelines to apply. 

 The resolution consists of four key tasks, including the formulation of the draft law to protect children and youth from game engagement. 

 Others tasks concern creating e-sports competition standard guidelines by the TESF, organising public events to create understanding about e-sports, and enforcing existing laws for game-related violations, such as gambling. 

 A steering committee, chaired by Ms Teerarat, was then set up to move the resolution forward, including drafting the law. The work is supported by Thailand Science Research and Innovation (TSRI). 

 The hearings were then conducted with the participation of state agencies, gaming circles and telecom operators to usher in the legislation. 

 The TESF is duty-bound to formulate e-sports competition standard manuals. Under the draft law, to join an e-sports competition, children must seek written consent from their parents. 

 If games are violent, "an appropriate time limit will be applied", Ms Teerarat said, citing the draft law. "Letting kids play games that are not suitable for their age all day long is not a viable option." 

 The draft does not contain the exact time limits. 

 Ms Teerarat said there is no stipulation of "two hour" limits for game engagement or banning certain game types in the e-sports competition as reported by the media. She called these "talking points" that may have come out of the hearing sessions but are not in the actual draft. 

 The draft also ushers in game ratings to make sure children play games that suit their age. The rating details will be defined again under ministerial regulations. 

 Ms Teerarat said that according to medical professionals, child game addicts lose forebrain capacity, damaging their ability to think and analyse, instead leaving them to rely heavily on their emotions. 

 "They are more likely to develop further addictions," she said. 

 According to Ms Teerarat, the draft concerns the protection of children and youth, the latter defined as those aged no more than 25. 

 "But children aged 15 and those aged 25 may not be able to play the same violent games," Ms Teerarat said, adding that the goal is to make sure gamers are playing games suited to their age. 

 She said the draft legislation has been sent to TSRI for vetting. After the vetting is completed, TSRI will be open for any parties to further put it into law. 

 On July 17, Ms Teerarat said she will report the draft to Deputy Prime Minister Anutin Charnvirakul for consideration. 

 Responding to concerns that the draft law could hinder the progress of e-sports, which is touted as a new economic driver, Ms Teerarat said: "I understand children who play games want to gain an income, but they must also know that not everyone gains success. Whatever they do by not exchanging their future or health with this success is something we are happy to see." 

 EDUCATION AND CONTROL BALANCE 

 Pramoth Sudjitporn, vice-chairman and chief executive of Asiasoft Corporation, an SET-listed online game service provider, said that instead of applying a ban or time limit, Thailand may seek a certain level of control and management, as well as educating the youth on how to play games in a manner that does not harm health. 

 "Educating them will protect gamers' health, and this will not limit their creativity," he said. 

 Mr Pramoth conceded the negative side of gaming, including game casters who dress provocatively or those who use swear words to attract audiences. 

 "These types of players can be reported or banned," he said. 

 According to Mr Pramoth, gaming is low-cost entertainment with easy access. There are at least 5 million daily active gamers in the country, while the number of casual gamers could be as high as 10 million. 

 In practical terms, limiting game streaming time is a difficult task because game operators are not based in Thailand. There are a slew of game streaming platforms, include Facebook, YouTube and Twitch, as well as other specific apps. 

 Game rating and censorship can be applied to violent games. 

 "This is a time when Thai society should see e-sports as a real sports profession that needs practice for competition, not just to see gamers as game addicts," Mr Pramoth said. 

 Jirayod Theppipit, chief executive and founder of Infofed, which owns Thailand E-Sports Arena, the country's first e-sports competition venue, said the game-related regulation requires proper balance of control. 

 "If it is too strict, it will impact e-sports activities and the growth of gaming," he said. 

 Limiting game streaming time would violate people's rights, Mr Jirayod said. 

 "Games can inspire youngsters' interests or help them learn new skills and new technology, such as augmented and virtual reality, as well as artificial intelligence and cybersecurity," he said. 

 The e-sports ecosystem includes game service providers, e-sports organisers, game streamers, game production, e-sport professions and coaches. 

 Game streamers can earn 10,000, 100,000 or even a million baht per month, Mr Jirayod said. 

 Avid gamers compete with each other at AIS Thailand Game Expo 2020. The industry's revenue is expected to grow to 27 billion baht this year. Apichart Jinakul 

 JOB CREATION 

 TESF president Santi Lohthong said that if the two-hour game streaming limit and the ban on FPS were to happen, this would hamper the growth of the gaming and e-sports industry to create new jobs for youngsters. 

 The new jobs include sport scientists, diet therapists, game casters, coaches, e-sports event organisers and game streamers. 

 The e-sports industry could also create demand for existing careers, including computer and electrical engineers, network engineers and programmers. 

 According to Mr Santi, e-sports is a growing market across the globe. Income is earned from sponsorships and ticket sales, and there are ancillary businesses involved, such as gaming accessories. 

 "Controlling game streaming time could be seen as a move to protect children, but it may also deter them from learning new technologies," Mr Santi said. "We object to this proposal." 

 Game ratings could be rolled out instead, and efforts should be made to educate children on how to play games properly, he said. 

 A popular game caster, Naiyarat "Pang" Thanawaigoses, with her own YouTube game casting channel, Zbing Z, said that because game streaming is regarded as a new career, limiting game streaming time would not be right. 

 She said game casters need to be dedicated to their jobs like athletes, which requires consistent practice. 

 "Two hours would not be enough for my work," Ms Naiyarat said. "Health is an individual issue, and any career can have health risks." 

 She said FPS games have been accepted internationally with ratings identified, and this is a new opportunity for youth from around the globe to enter the game competition. 

 Children, however, need to learn the objective of competition and responsibility when playing games. 

 "There are a lot of new careers emerging, such as game casters, streamers, e-sports athletes and game developers," Ms Naiyarat said. "These jobs could making earnings for those involved and their families, and these are careers many people want to do." 

 Meanwhile, Pratthana Leelapanang, AIS's chief of consumer business, said he understands that every activity or business must have rules and regulations designed to make sure the industry will move ahead in the best way. 

 The latest move is seen as part of the development for businesses, he said. 

 He expects clarity in the regulations to come: "Forming rules would be a good thing for the industry's environment." 

 CAREFUL CONSIDERATION 

 Digital Economy and Society (DES) Minister Buddhipongse Punnakanta said he has been unaware of draft legislation aimed at governing e-sport activities. 

 He said he was unsure about the criteria that would be used to define people who would engage in e-sports. 

 "This requires careful consideration," Mr Buddhipongse said. 

 As far as e-sports activities concerning preteens or children, some social groups may try to seek regulations that could govern the industry to prevent children from developing behavioural deviations, he said. 

 He said it's impractical if game streaming is limited to just two hours, as reported by the media. 

 According to Mr Buddhipongse, e-sports is one the core sectors being promoted by the Tourism and Sports Ministry to level up the country's e-sports context and related competition and attract skilled players to participate. 

 "The DES Ministry expects to take part in giving opinions on the process of forming regulations if the draft goes to the House of Representatives," he said. 

 Cosplayers at the second Thailand Game Expo 2020 held at Bitec Bangna. Apichart Jinakul 

 PHETCHABUN: The owners of land plots leading to the tip of Pha Hua Sing, a famous cliff on Phu Thap Boek, have removed some permanent structures that spoiled the scenery and reopened the path for visitors to the photogenic area. 

 Kuaneng Thor dismantled seven permanent tents erected near the highest point of the cliff on the mountain on Saturday night. He and other landowners also removed a barrier after a warning by security authorities that the landlords were defying a state order. 

 Security and forestry authorities on Thursday inspect seven tents and other structures seen spoiling the scenic Pha Hua Sing on the mountain. (Photo by Sunthorn Kongwarakhom) 

 Mr Kuaneng, an ethnic Hmong, and at least two other people owning the plots near Pha Hua Sing were ordered to demolish all structures close to the edge of the cliff within 15 days from Friday after they were occupying national forest. 

 The issue grabbed national attention last week when a tourist posted a video clip showing the tents and other structures on the cliff, asking whether the location was state or private property. 

 After the clip was widely shared, the Natural Resources and Environment Ministry checked an aerial map and found that the cliff was not part of Phu Hin Rongkla National Park. Days later the ministry changed its position, saying the areas around the cliff belonged to the private owners but a small part of the cliff was a section of another national park, Khao Khor. 

 The owners said they had believed the area was their property. 

 At least three landowners must dismantle encroaching structures, including seven tents, a concrete building under construction, one finished cabin and four still being built, toilets, and campgrounds. So far only the seven tents have been removed. 

 The landowners installed a barrier to block the entrance to the cliff on Friday and removed it on Saturday, claiming the blockade was to prove to authorities that they did not allow tourists to use the structures illegally built by them. 

 Kuaneng Thor, an ethnic Hmong (right), talks to authorities on Thursday before an official order for him and at least two other owners to remove structures on Pha Hua Sing was posted on Friday. (Photo by Sunthorn Kongwarakhom) 

 Col Pongphet Ketsupa of the Internal Security Operations Command, who joined other agencies in tackling the problem, said on Sunday the cliff was cleared for all tourists to visit. More action will be taken if the landowners nearby obstruct the entrance, he added. 

 Phu Thap Boek is not a national park. Located 1,500 metres above sea level, it is the highest peak in Phetchabun. It is a popular attraction but the mountain is tainted by illegal land encroachment and misuse of the plots. The state allocated land to people, most of them Hmong, to preserve their livelihoods after the end of the fight against the now-defunct Communist Party of Thailand. Some, however,  have turned agricultural farmland into resorts or leased the plots to outsiders. 

 A majority of people are still opposed to opening the country to foreigners who are not infected with Covid-19, reasoning that the global coronavirus situation is still very serious, according to a survey carried out by the National Institute of Development Administration, or Nida Poll. 

 The poll was conducted on July 6-8 on 1,251 people aged 18 and over of various levels of education and occupations throughout the country. 

 A proposed "medical and wellness" programme would open the country to foreigners who test negative for Covid-19 to receive medical treatment. They would be required to undergo a 14-day quarantine before being allowed to return to their home countries. 

 A majority - 55.32% - disagreed with the programme. Of them, 41.41% strongly disagreed with it, saying those admitted could be carriers and cause a second wave of the pandemic,  while Thailand already has many infections imported by Thai returnees from abroad. Another 13.91% said they disagreed because the situation does not yet warrant the entry of foreigners. even if they have health certificates. 

 On the other side, 23.10% agreed, saying this would enhance the repuation of Thai medical facilities and spur the economy; and 21.58% moderately agreed, reasoning that measures taken by Thailand had proved effective against the Covid-19 spread. 

 A second proposed programme would allow those foreigners admitted for medical treatment to travel around Thailand after undergoing a 14-day quarantine. Asked about this second programme, 37.89% were totally against it and wanted Covid-19 to be 100% eradicated first because they had no confidence in the 14-day quarantine, while 14.55% disagreed with it, but less strongly, for fear of a second wave of the pandemic since Covid-19 was mostly imported by foreigners. 

 On the other side, 24.14% strongly supported the programme, saying it would help rehabilitate tourism and stimulate the economy, while another 23.26% somewhat agreed with it for showing confidence in Thai medical services. 

 The rest, 0.16%, had no comment or were not interested. 

 Asked about the travel bubble programme that would allow foreigners from countries free of Covid-19 to visit the country, a majority - 54.36% - supported it. Of that number, 25.90% strongly agreed, saying it would help spur the economy and revitalise the airline industry, while another 28.46% were in moderate agreement for the same reason. 

 On the other side, 29.65% strongly opposed the programme, and a further 14.95% were in moderate disagreement for fear of a second wave of the pandemic. 

 The rest, 10.4%, had no comment or were not interested. 

 Asked whether they were confident the government would be able to contain the spread of Covid-19 if foreigners were allowed into the country under these programmes, 59.63% were not confident while 39.33% were. The remaining 1.04% had no comment or were not interested. 

 Thailand added one new coronavirus case imported from Japan and continued its streak of no local transmissions, the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA) said on Sunday. 

 The centre said the new patient was a 39-year-old salaryman who returned to the kingdom from Japan on Tuesday and is under state quarantine at a location in Bangkok. He tested postive for the novel coronavirus  on Friday, although he showed no symptoms. 

 The new case brought the confirmed total to 3,217, with the death tolls remaining at 5. 

 The country has found no local transmission of the virus for 48 consecutive days. 

 SA KAEO: Checkpoints are being reopened to Cambodian traders for five hours a day as border markets on the Thai side slowly return to business, according to local authorities. 

 The Cambodian traders were told by the governor of Banteay Meanchey province that the Klong Luek checkpoint opposite the Cambodian border town of Poipet will open its doors for five hours starting from 8am every day. 

 Traders from Poipet are permitted to enter Klong Luek to collect merchandise they left behind at their shops when the Covid-19 pandemic struck which led to the border being closed. 

 Although Covid-19 restrictions are largely lifted, borders with neighbouring countries remain shut, prompting calls for the checkpoint reopening. 

 Permission was granted for Cambodian traders to come in for the purpose of picking up their merchandise before heading back to Poipet, according to a border source. 

 The traders are barred from engaging in buying or selling goods. They must also register for border entry and each trader may only arrive in a truck with no more than two people on board. 

 Once there, they will go through health screening and must wear face masks at all times. They will be watched by authorities and not permitted to leave except to return to Poipet. 

 A similar reopening for merchandise collection is also taking place at the Ta Phraya, Nong Prue and Khao Din border passes in the province. 

 Scandals around social media influencer and well-known "life coach" Sean Buranahiran have put this well-publicised yet poorly understood profession under the spotlight. 

 Other certified life coaches are feeling the heat after the heavy attacks on the young Thai by social media users, to the extent where many of them declined to give an interview or refrained from talking about the man. 

 However, life coaching has become one of the fastest-growing industries in Thailand in recent years. As people's desire to find fulfilment in all areas of their lives increases, so has the number of people seeking a coach to help them achieve their goals. 

 Although there are no figures available on the number of people engaged in coaching, the International Coach Federation (ICF), the leading global organisation for life coaches, has at least 195 members in Thailand, compared with just 133 members back in 2016. 

 When Win, a 29-year-old marketing manager, was searching for a life coach about a year ago, he wanted to make sure he was hiring someone reputable. 

 "Normally, if someone introduces themselves as a life coach, they're just people who often post motivational quotes or inspirational video clips on their social media account," he said. 

 Eventually, Win found a life coach he thought might be suitable -- "an older man who had a career in the same field and plenty of life experience" -- and hired him. But things did not work out the way he hoped. 

 "If he asked me a question, and I said that I didn't know the answer, he would ask, 'If you did know the answer, what would it be?' He did that on every occasion. It was becoming boring. I told him that I was going to need some answers from him because his only strategy wasn't getting us anywhere. I terminated our arrangement after two months," he recalled. 

 INTERNATIONAL AGENCIES 

 An ICF-certified business coach, who asked not to be named due to the contract with her company and clients, said life coaches and business coaches are often ranked alongside motivational speakers, influencers and consultants. 

 "However, life coaches and business coaches will not tell their clients what to do but ask powerful questions that will help the clients find the answers by themselves," she said, adding that therefore, unlike a consultant, a life coach or business coach will not need specific knowledge about the business the client is in. 

 She said business coaches certified by the ICF will be trained to a particular standard and are required to abide by a code of ethics, as well as having to continue their study to retain the certification. They will also be reviewed by the ICF, peer coaches and their clients. 

 Meanwhile, Thai coaches do not necessarily have to attend courses abroad as the Thailand Coaching Academy, established by Potchanart Seebungkerd, is an accredited coach training programme certified by the ICF, she said. 

 Ms Potchanart, aka Jimi the Coach, studied coaching science in Australia for two years before founding her company in Thailand in 2012. 

 Annop Niyomdecha, an organisational psychologist who has over 15 years of experience in the field, said he is concerned that anyone can call themselves a life coach. 

 "Life coaching experiences can vary hugely from massive life-changing improvements to a complete disaster. The reason for this is that the coaching industry is not as regulated as other advisory professions, so many people can call themselves coaches without any formal training," said Mr Annop. 

 MONEY-MAKING BUSINESS 

 "I've seen an increasing number of incompetent and untrained coaches. These self-proclaimed gurus and influencers on social media give the industry a terrible reputation. Many of them also offer coaching services and charge very high fees because they can make lots of money by calling themselves a life coach," he said. 

 According to sources, one-on-one coaching sessions of about 1-1.5 hours can cost tens of thousand baht. A session of business or executive coaching can cost even more. 

 Watchara Trabhumi, a 29-year-old business owner, said he recently spent 30,000 baht on a life coaching programme run by a famous life coach and influencer on social media and found it to be worth the investment. 

 "Yes, it's quite expensive for a five-day online training programme, but it gave me the confidence and courage I needed to make critical decisions at the right time. I realise that life coaching still has a stigma to it. Some people may see it as a scam, but in my case it did work well. I think it's all about finding a coach who is right for you," he said. 

 COMPLICATED PROCESSES 

 Mr Annop said life coaches, in his opinion, work with their clients to help them achieve goals, overcome obstacles and make changes or shifts in their lives. The coach works on the assumption that their client, as a partner, has the answers to create the changes they seek. 

 "A life coach is almost like a sculptor who can look at you and see the potential for you to achieve all that you desire. Through specific strategies and skills, the coach helps you define yourself and create the life you envision. Coaches help you focus, provide direction, challenge you, support you and motivate you," he said. 

 He said coaches usually use skills that include observing, deep listening, asking empowering questions, challenging and motivating and do not counsel or analyse the past. 

 "Life coaching is based on the principle that the client has the intrinsic ability to determine and achieve their goals. Everything is based on the present and what you want to achieve moving forward," he added. 

 "Unlike therapists, coaches don't diagnose or treat anything. While therapy focuses on healing past issues, coaching focuses on implementing changes to create a new future," he said. 

 Mr Annop said there are also differences between a life coach and a motivational speaker. Life coaching is normally one-to-one or in a small group whereas motivational speaking is one to many or a large audience. 

 Moreover, life coaches are trained in helping others reach their potential in their professional and personal lives. While there are no regulations regarding becoming a life coach, those who chose to be certified by a respected coaching body must complete training requirements, log hours of coaching, and complete exams, he said. 

 NEGATIVE MENTAL IMPACTS 

 Varoth Chotpitayasunondh, a psychiatrist and spokesman for the Department of Mental Health (DMH), said he is concerned that the demand for life coaches is being met by individuals who do not have qualifications or training in psychology. "When it comes to mental wellbeing, it's important to get advice from professionals and experts who have been properly taught," he said. 

 Dr Varoth said if individuals who seek life coaching have mental health problems, there is a danger they may not be receiving appropriate treatment during the coaching. 

 "Many self-help gurus and self-made life coaches now use a technique called neuro-linguistic programming to motivate their clients to achieve their goals. It could be dangerous if it is used by someone who is not well-trained or doesn't understand this technique," he said. 

 STANDARDS NEEDED 

 "Psychiatrists and psychologists have to study for nine years and six years [respectively] before we can actually practise, so I think life coaches should at the very minimum have training in mental health identification and first aid, and have referral networks to psychologists and psychiatrists in that case," he said. 

 Dr Varoth said there have been calls for stricter licensing and more organisational bodies to look into the matter. "In the future, the profession should be standardised and the DMH is looking into it," he said. 

 SONGKHLA: Vocal opponents of the planned Chana industrial estate have refused to take part in an “illegitimate” public hearing on the project after being blocked from attending it. 

 The constitutionally required public hearing on the 18.7-billion-baht project was held on Saturday by the Southern Border Provinces Administration Centre (SBPAC), at the Chana Wittaya School in Chana district of Songkhla province. The SBPAC is in charge of steering the scheme.  

 A week earlier, officials reportedly visited the homes of at least eight people who had in the past opposed a coal-fired power plant in the South. On Thursday, police blocked traffic and roads to the school, reportedly to maintain order, Internet Law Reform Dialogue (iLaw) reported. 

 People from nearby Satun province, who had travelled to Songkhla to show solidarity with the dissenters, were also stopped along the way. 

 The hearing started in the morning and went smoothly, with people from both sides of the debate over the project given chances to air their views. 

 But some opponents, led by the Chana Rak Tin group, could not make it to the hearing. They later declared they would not join it because they did not want to be part of a mechanism legitimising a project they did not approve of. 

 On the same day, the SBPAC held a parallel forum at the Taling Chan Tambon Administration Organisation in Chana district. It was attended by 1,000 people. 

 The Chana Rak Tin group also held an activity at the same time with 100 participants. Speakers took the stage for about 30 minutes while officials took video of them before handing them leaflets with content similar to the government’s Covid-19 prevention announcement. 

 The leaflets, signed by Songkhla police chief Pol Maj Gen Tivatawat Nakornsri, asked for cooperation to avoid assembling in a manner that risked spreading the disease. They also mentioned civil and criminal penalties for violations, which included imprisonment under the Criminal Code, the emergency decree and other laws. 

 The Chana Rak Tin group then read a statement before heading to the school, but members were blocked by 50 uniformed police, SBPAC and administrative officials. The group decided to move to the Chana Market instead since the school was 3km away and they believed they could be stopped again. 

 Their statement pointed out the irregularities surrounding the high-profile project. Unlike other megaprojects, the Chana industrial estate was approved by the cabinet even before public hearings on it were held. 

 “The public hearing today is just a formality to legitimise the project — one of the many they have held before. We therefore give it no value and do not accept it,” the statement said (story continnues below). 

 A group of dissenters read their statement after being asked to disperse in Chana district of Songkhla province, on Saturday. (Photo supplied by Apinya Wipatayotin) 

 Saturday’s hearing came two months after an aborted attempt to hold a public forum on short notice, which drew heavy criticism from local residents. 

 On May 12, Kaireeyah Ramanya, a young Chana resident, wrote a letter to “Grandpa Prayut” asking him to cancel the hearing that had been scheduled to start on May 14. She slept at Songkhla City Hall in protest while waiting for an answer from Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha. She give him until May 20 to reply. 

 The “daughter of Chana”, as she came to be known, complained that the hearing was poorly publicised and people from nearby provinces were not allowed to join. 

 Even residents of other tambons in Songkhla were not allowed to take part even though they will be affected, she added. 

 It was also noted that the hearing had been scheduled during Ramadan, and while strict curbs on travel were still in effect because of the risk of Covid-19. The likelihood of people being able to attend was thus very low. 

 The SBPAC later agreed to suspend the hearing and reschedule it at a better time. As soon as they left the city hall, another group supporting the project submitted a letter to the government to show their support for the project. 

 The Chana Special Economic Zone is part of the “triangle of security, wealth and sustainability” that the Prayut Chan-o-cha government and the SBPAC are counting on it to improve the economy of the southern provinces. Improved opportunities in turn are expected to reduce sectarian unrest that has troubled the region for decades. 

 Three districts were singled out as prototypes for development — Sungai Kolok in Narathiwat province, Betong in Yala and Nong Chik in Pattani. 

 Chana is the fourth and was touted as a “progressive industry town for the future”. Projects planned there are the second Songkhla port, a railway linked to the port, more power plants to support growth, and the Chana industrial estate to make goods from local resources and process goods from imported materials to be exported from the ports. 

 For the power plants, proposals have been made for natural gas, biomass, solar and wind and some have already drawn opposition. 

 Overall, the Chana project covers 16,753 rai in three tambons — Nathab, Taling Chan and Sakhom. It costs 18.7 billion baht and is forecast to create 100,000 jobs. 

 An online movement is gathering momentum to publicise the widespread practice of charging foreigners as much as 10 times what Thais pay at local tourist attractions. 

 The timing is particularly appropriate since the country is still closed to foreign travellers. Consequently, the tourism industry is relying on domestic travellers for survival. That includes tens of thousands of expatriates who live in the country year-round and pay taxes. 

 Foreigners who pay 300 baht to enter a national park while Thais pay 30 baht are now sharing their experiences and posting photographic evidence on the Facebook page 2PriceThailand, which has attracted 6,800 members since it was created on June 16. A companion Twitter account, Two Price Thailand, is also online with 2,100 followers. 

 The Facebook group is the brainchild of Richard Barrow, a longtime British expat and well-known travel blogger with more than 160,000 followers on Twitter. 

 “We don’t think it is fair that some tourist attractions disguise the fact that they have a dual-price system,” writes Mr Barrow, who is the administrator of the Facebook page. 

 The reference is to venues that post the prices for Thai visitors in Thai numerals, which most foreigners cannot read. Consequently, they may not realise a Thai is paying far less. 

 “Our opinion is that if they want to overcharge foreign tourists by as much as 200% then that is their decision. But, don’t do it in a way that is both sneaky and insulting,” said Mr Barrow. 

 “Many Thais and foreigners agree that the dual pricing system is hurting the image of both the tourism industry and Thailand itself. Thai people are internationally known for their kind and generous hospitality. The actions of a few tourist attractions are damaging that reputation. 

 “We respectfully request a transparent pricing system in Thailand as the first step. But, ultimately we would like to see the #2PriceThailand policy abolished.” 

 Many of the contributors to the Facebook page contend that as year-round residents and taxpayers, they should be treated the same as Thais when it comes to traveling in the country. 

 “They weren’t interested that we worked in Thailand and had Thai spouses,” wrote Katherine Salmon of her experience at Sa Morakot (Emerald Pool), a popular attraction in Krabi, where Thais are charged 20 baht and foreigners 200 baht. 

 At Phu Hin Rong Kla National Park, which straddles Loei, Phitsanulok and Phetchabun, admission for Thai adults is 40 baht but foreigners pay 500 baht. 

 At Doi Inthanon National Park in Chiang Mai, the Thai and foreign prices are 50 and 300 baht respectively. Christoph Ladisch posted a picture of a sign in English which notes that discounts used to be available for foreigners who held a work permit and driver’s licence, but that policy was cancelled in February 2015. 

 Erawan National park is 300 Baht for adults and 200 Baht for children. For Thais it costs only 30 Baht. A work permit or driving license doesn’t work here. ❗️WARNING: This tourist attraction has a #2pricethailand policy. More information: https://t.co/0yD7Tn3tGH #Thailand pic.twitter.com/wZNsCLJxue 

 

 

 Not all the news is bad, and there are also numerous posts about destinations that are easier on foreigners’ wallets. 

 Corina Martin wrote: “Just been to the Phuket Thai Hua Museum in Phuket old town and they gave us a reduced price as we are work permit holders. We paid 100 baht, not quite the Thai price of 50 but at least better than the foreign visitor price of 200 baht. 

 “Would be nice if they just changed their fees to include Thais and expats as resident rates. We all pay taxes here after all,” she wrote. 

 The two-price issue was raised at a recent panel discussion on the tourism outlook at the Foreign Correspondents Club of Thailand. 

 Tanes Petsuwan, deputy governor for marketing communications for the Tourism Authority of Thailand, said he was not happy about foreigners being subject to dual pricing. He said he had already raised the issue with officials from the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment about the situation in the parks. 

 “We’d better treat them as equal. … This would be a very good time to reform tourism and make it right,” he said. 

 The government on Saturday reported 14 new coronavirus cases, all in quarantine, bringing the total to 3,216 cases since January. 

 The country has been free of local transmission for 47 consecutive days, said the Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration. 

 Among the 14 new cases was a nine-year-old who travelled with her family. 

 A returnee, 42, arrived home from Bahrain on June 28 and was in a state quarantine facility in Chon Buri. She was asymtomatic and tested positive on July 9. 

 Another patient, 31, worked on a cruise ship in the United States. After returning home on Sunday, she was put in a state quarantine facility in Bangkok. She showed no symptoms but tested positive on Thursday. 

 The 12 others — 11 students, aged 19 to 31, and the nine-year-old girl — arrived to Thailand from Sudan on Friday and tested positive the next day, said the centre. 

 The new cases brought the total to 3,216, of whom 3,088 recovered, including one discharged on Saturday. Seventy patients remained in hospitals, while the death toll remained at 58. 

 Global Covid-19 cases in 211 countries totalled 12.62 million, up by 237,329 in the previous 24 hours, with 562,769 deaths, up by 5,364. About 58.3% of the total cases already recovered. 

 The US had the most cases, at 3.29 million, and the most fatalities, at 136,671. Thailand ranked 100th worldwide in the number of cases. 

 SINGAPORE: Singapore's long-ruling party retained power Saturday but its support fell sharply, while the opposition made gains, in a general election held under the shadow of a coronavirus outbreak. 

 Voters put on masks and gloves and had to observe social distancing rules during a poll held as the city-state emerges from a lengthy lockdown. 

 The affluent financial hub has seen large virus outbreaks in dormitories housing low-paid foreign workers, but with new infections slowing and authorities easing a partial lockdown the government pushed ahead with the poll. 

 The People's Action Party (PAP), which has ruled Singapore for six decades, was always assured of victory, and won 83 of 93 parliamentary seats up for grabs, and 61.2% of the popular vote. 

 But that was pointedly down on the nearly 70% of the vote it won at the country's last election in 2015, while the opposition Workers' Party picked up 10 seats -- its best ever showing at an election. 

 Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, visibly disappointed, conceded the "percentage of the popular vote is not as high as I had hoped". 

 "The results reflect the pain and uncertainty that Singaporeans feel in this crisis -- the loss of income, the anxiety about jobs," he told a press conference. 

 "This was not a feel-good election." 

 The trading hub has been hit hard by the pandemic and is forecast to be heading for its worst recession since independence in 1965. 

 The PAP's share of the popular vote was close to its lowest ever level of 60.1%, in the 2011 election. 

 But for the Workers' Party, which previously held just six seats, the results felt like a victory. Raucous celebrations erupted in one of the party's strongholds, with people cheering and waving flags. 

 "I'm very grateful to all the voters, I'm also very humbled," said party leader Pritam Singh. "I think there's a lot of work to do." 

 Commentators said the ruling party's support may also have been dented by a desire for change among the young. 

 "Younger voters wanted their voices to be heard in a more significant way," Eugene Tan, political analyst from Singapore Management University, told broadcaster CNA. 

 "One-party governance may not go down so well with them in this age and time." 

 Long queues 

 Friday's vote had been marred after long queues formed outside polling stations due to the need to undergo virus checks, prompting election officials to extend voting by two hours. 

 Opposition groups reacted furiously, with the Singapore Democratic Party calling it "highly irregular", adding that some of their polling agents had to leave before voting ended. 

 Prime Minister Lee, in charge since 2004 but now likely heading for his final term as premier, had repeatedly called Covid-19 "the crisis of a generation" and sought to project his party as a force for stability. 

 But his message did not resonate with voters, while the opposition also received a boost after they were joined by Premier Lee's estranged brother, Lee Hsien Yang. 

 The sibling is locked in a long-running feud with the prime minister over the legacy of their father, Singapore's late founding leader Lee Kuan Yew, and has become a member of the Progress Singapore Party, although he did not run for office himself. 

 His party was among a host of opposition groups taking on the PAP, although it did not win any seats. 

 Power transfer 

 The PAP, which oversaw Singapore's transformation into one of the world's wealthiest societies, enjoys solid support but has been accused of arrogance, gerrymandering and targeting its rivals. 

 During the campaign, several media outlets were hit with a controversial law against misinformation after carrying comments made by an opposition figure on the virus outbreak. 

 They were ordered to place warnings next to the comments, saying they contained false information. 

 Job security and the government's response to the pandemic have been key topics among voters. 

 After initially keeping the virus in check, Singapore saw major outbreaks in the foreign worker dorms. It has reported more than 45,000 infections, including 26 deaths. 

 The poll is also a step in a carefully orchestrated transition of power to a new generation of leaders, with the prime minister expected to hand over to a hand-picked successor at some point afterwards. 

 Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak has hinted that he is prepared to accept his fate if Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha decides to reshuffle the cabinet. 

 A decision to shake up the cabinet is the prerogative of the prime minister, Mr Somkid said, adding that he believed the prime minister would choose suitable people. 

 "I have been prepared for a long time. I am old now. I already lost heart years ago," said Mr Somkid who is known to be the government's economic tsar. 

 Mr Somkid said that political problems will have an impact on the stability of the economy and therefore, it is necessary to make sure politics goes smoothly. 

 When it comes to appointing cabinet ministers, the prime minister will have to choose the right person for the right job and put the national interest first, Mr Somkid said, adding it is normal for cabinet ministers to come and go in a government. 

 Commenting on the resignation from the ruling Palang Pracharath Party (PPRP) of three cabinet ministers, Finance Minister Uttama Savanayana, Energy Minister Sontirat Sontijirawong and Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation Minister Suvit Maesincee, Mr Somkid said this was an internal affair of the party, and it will not affect the government's work. 

 Kobsak Pootrakul, deputy secretary-general of the prime minister, also resigned. 

 All four members who resigned from the PPRP are part of the economic team engineered by Mr Somkid. 

 Gen Prayut postponed a meeting of economic ministers originally scheduled for yesterday. Instead, the prime minister met his economic advisers, representatives of the private sector as well as from the Bank of Thailand to listen to their opinions on economic rehabilitation during the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr Somkid and Mr Uttama were present at the meeting. 

 The prime minister has attached great importance to helping small and medium-sized entrepreneurs affected by the economic impact of Covid-19, Mr Somkid said. 

 "It is the right thing for the prime minister, as the head of the economic team, to have all necessary information [before the full meeting of economic ministers] because as a coalition government, all ministries must move forward together," Mr Somkid said. 

 Gen Prayut confirmed on Thursday that a cabinet reshuffle will be necessary. 

 The resignations of the three ministers followed a leadership change inside the party last month that saw Deputy Prime Minister Prawit Wongsuwon rise to replace Mr Uttama as party leader, and Anucha Nakasai replacing Mr Sontirat as secretary-general. 

 Some PPRP members backing Gen Prawit have demanded a cabinet reshuffle now the party has a new leader, but Gen Prayut has kept them guessing, a party source said. 

 Speaking at the PPRP's general assembly on Friday, the first under his leadership, Gen Prawit called for unity among party members, confirming all members will be treated equally under his leadership. 

 "I love you all equally. I want everyone to stop quarrelling ... I know that everyone wants justice and equality. There must be an answer to inequality. The party must be unified without factions. Whatever happened in the past, you must put all this behind you. From now on, I will take responsibility," Gen Prawit said. 

 Mr Anucha said yesterday that the resignations of the four were "an amicable breakup", adding that they have made contributions to the party. Mr Anucha also said that the PPRP has not yet discussed who will be nominated for cabinet posts. 

 Thanwa Krairirk, a former poll candidate who resigned from the PPRP, posted on Facebook, saying that cabinet seats are not the assets of any party or anyone, but are national assets. 

 When someone is removed from the cabinet, a suitable replacement must be found to fill the post, Mr Thanwa said. 

 If there is no such a person in the party, an outsider must be brought in, he added. 

 The government looks set to establish a centre to handle the country's economic rehabilitation from the coronavirus. 

 It is envisaged that the body will work in the same way as the current Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA), which has been successful in controlling the pandemic. 

 Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha on Friday agreed with the plan proposed by the private sector and instructed related agencies to look into it. 

 Gen Prayut called a joint meeting to comprise his advisory team, heads of private organisations, Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak, Finance Minister Uttama Savanayana, the deputy secretary-general to the prime minister for political affairs, Kobsak Pootrakool, Bank of Thailand governor Veerathai Santiprabhop and Thosaporn Sirisumphand, secretary-general to the National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDC). 

 Mr Kobsak said the new economic rehabilitation centre would be chaired by Gen Prayut. 

 Kalin Sarasin, chairman of the Thai Chamber of Commerce, said the private sector had proposed that the centre be set up to facilitate cooperation between all parties to rehabilitate the Thai economy, which is being ravaged by the pandemic. The premier himself should its chairman, he suggested. 

 Meanwhile, Mr Kobsak said the PM's advisory team had also proposed that the government quickly produce updated data in order to address the economic problems more efficiently. 

 "The government should have quick measures on hand to tackle the economic problems caused by the pandemic, particularly the anticipated hefty unemployment among 500,000 new graduates this year," he said. 

 Kobsak: Quick measures needed 

 Mr Kobsak said the government also agreed yesterday to allow SMEs to gain greater access to state procurement projects. 

 State agencies may be required to buy SMEs' (small to medium sized Enterprises) products or services for at least 30% of their procurements each year, he said. 

 Currently, almost all SMEs cannot compete with large companies for state procurements due to their prohibitive costs. 

 Mr Kobsak said a 50 billion-baht SME fund would be established soon to help those SMEs which cannot access the soft loan scheme offered by the Bank of Thailand. 

 The bank began accepting applications for SMEs affected by the coronavirus crisis on April 27. The loans aim to help ease SMEs' suffering and boost their liquidity, enabling them to pay for necessary expenses, particularly wages. 

 The two-year scheme, part of the third phase of the government's relief measures, means the central bank will charge commercial banks just 0.01% interest to re-lend to SMEs with a maximum credit line of 500 million baht at 2%. 

 SMEs must operate domestically, be non-listed companies and still be servicing debts from last year. 

 Thousands of patients will be questioned by police investigating an alleged 72 million baht in fraudulent claims for treatment by community health clinics in Bangkok operating under the government's 30-baht scheme. 

 Deputy Crime Suppression Division commander Pol Col Somkuan Phuensap said on Friday that as many as 10,000 patients of the rogue clinics may be asked to provide information to investigators.  

 The National Health Security Office (NHSO) has registered a complaint against 18 health clinics in Bangkok believed to have swindled 72 million baht from the gold card scheme, also known as the 30-baht universal health plan, in fraudulent claims for treatment of patients. 

 The clinics join the NHSO by treating patients from their communities under the chum chon ob oon (community warmth) project. People in the communities get free medical checkups, with the cost covered by the NHSO. 

 The initiative was aimed at reducing the workload on hospitals, using the clinics for frontline treatment. 

 Clinics in Bangkok and provinces throughout the country have joined the scheme. 

 The alleged fraud was detected by an NHSO panel sifting through records of budget spending by the clinics from Oct 1, 2018, to Sept 30 last year. 

 The suspected huge fraud was made public by Pradermchai Boonchuaylue, a Pheu Thai Party MP for Bangkok. He said clinics had listed false names for non-existent patients who supposedly received medical examinations, and used them to claim reimbursements from the NHSO. 

 However, the complaint lodged by the NHSO says the clinics had changed the health records of their patients, adding false information so they could claim additional reimbursement.  

 For example, the health record of a patient with a normal body mass index would be changed to indicate a greater risk to health, so the clinic could get more money from the NHSO, Pol Col Somkuan said. 

 The NHSO would terminate its contract with the clinics, but this meant more than 200,000 members of the health care scheme would need to find new clinics to attend, he said. 

 Public Health Minister Anutin Charnvirakul said the clinics face criminal charges and will also be sued to recover the damage caused to the state budget  

 The government on Friday reported no new cases of coronavirus disease, with the total remaining at 3,202 and the death toll unchanged at 58. 

 The Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration said there were no new cases of local infection or among quarantined returnees. The country had been free of local Covid-19 infection for 46 days. 

 Of the total 3,202 cases, 3,087 had recovered (96%), including two patients released on Thursday.  

 Fifty-seven patients remained at hospitals while the death toll was unchanged at 58, or 1.81% of total cases. 

 So far 1,780 cases were reported in Bangkok and Nonthaburi province, 744 in the South, 472 in the Central Plains, 111 in the Northeast and 95 in the North. 

 Global Covid-19 cases rose by 223,653 over the past 24 hours to 12.39 million. The worldwide death toll went up by 5,376 to 557,405. The United States had the most cases at 3.22 million, up by 61,067. 

 Brazil ranked second with 1.76 million cases, up by 42,907. 

 The Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA) and Silpakorn University are teaming up to turn Rattanakosin Island into a smart city. 

 The two organisations on Thursday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the Rattanakosin Island smart city project at City Hall. 

 The project is part of the Bangkok Smart City scheme aimed at creating a livable and sustainable city through close collaboration between the BMA, communities and other organisations. 

 The scheme will develop a framework and prototype of a smart city using the inner quarter of Rattanakosin Island as an area study, Deputy Bangkok Governor, Kriangyos Sudlabha, said on Thursday. 

 In doing so, Mr Kriangyos said the BMA, Silpakorn University, various other organisations, as well as the public, will work together making use of modern technology and innovation with a goal to improve people's quality of life. 

 Communities on the island are expected to come together to restore and modernise the island, he said. 

 In accordance with the government's creative economy policies, he said the project will develop areas where there is potential for development in line with their identities. 

 The area around Silpakorn University will be developed as a living gallery, Pak Khlong Talat as a flower lab and Bang Lumphu as a food lab within five years of the MoU signing date, he said. 

 Mr Kriangyos said the BMA is also working with high-calibre government and private organisations to turn Bangkok into a smart city, including the Digital Economy Promotion Agency (Depa), the Digital Government Development Agency, the Creative Economy Agency, PTT Plc, the National Innovation Agency, Future Tales Lab, Magnolias Quality Development Corporation, RMIT and the British embassy. 

 Depa has set an ambitious goal to turn 100 cities nationwide into smart cities in two years to improve the economy and quality of life in line with the 20-year national strategy plan. 

 It is hoped smart cities will also help create jobs. 

 Cities in six provinces plus Bangkok have begun the process of transforming themselves. 

 The provinces are Phuket, Chiang Mai, Khon Kaen, Chon Buri, Rayong and Chachoengsao. 

 Cities under the development cover seven smart city dimensions: economy, mobility, energy, living, people, governance and environment. 

 As most local tourists flock to popular destinations during the weekends, tour operators are asking the government to help fill up weekdays by creating more trips for the elderly and state agency meetings. 

 Phuriwat Limthavornrat, president of the Association of Domestic Travel, said the association is working on a plan to discuss with tourism-related agencies measures to disperse the flow of tourists. 

 He said elderly tourists are a potential market that can help support the whole sector as they need to use tourism operators to lead their excursions. Such a programme would help hotels fill vacant rooms from Monday to Thursday. 

 "The government should consider renewing the 'Shocking Price Weekday Travel' campaign, which was introduced last year, to encourage tourists to travel on weekdays, with more valuable deals on hotels, air tickets and restaurants," said Mr Phuriwat. 

 Local operators and provincial communities have to cooperate by increasing weekday activities, such as adding 1-2 more night markets or walking streets midweek, instead of holding special events only on weekends. 

 Tour companies are ready to adopt the Safety and Health Administration standard, ensuring safety and convenience for tourists under new practices, especially for elderly travellers who can travel more freely without family escort. 

 Mr Phuriwat said another important market is state agencies that have budgets to arrange meetings in the provinces during weekdays, particularly after Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha ordered such groups to help stimulate the domestic market. 

 Gen Prayut mentioned this idea at the cabinet meeting last week as more tourism destinations started to see overcrowding during weekends after the lockdown was relaxed. 

 For the moral support campaign endorsed by the government, the association aims to offer tourism packages on weekdays with cheaper accommodation prices so tour operators can efficiently manage the 2,000-baht budget requirement with more interesting choices in packages. 

 Chairat Trirattanajarasporn, president of the Tourism Council of Thailand, said operators have to assess the effectiveness of new tourism stimulus schemes when they are rolled out for a month. 

 Even though this plan has received positive feedback, it is not enough to salve the whole industry as the domestic market contributes only 30% of total tourism revenue, he said. 

 The consequences of an outbreak still prevent most people from travelling as many want to save money for other necessary expenditures. 

 Mr Chairat said the government should commence the travel bubbles scheme as soon as possible. 

 